To our shareowners:
In Amazon’s 1997 letter to shareholders, our first, I talked about our hope to create an “enduring franchise,”
one that would reinvent what it means to serve customers by unlocking the internet’s power. I noted that
Amazon had grown from having 158 employees to 614, and that we had surpassed 1.5 million customer
accounts. We had just gone public at a split-adjusted stock price of $1.50 per share. I wrote that it was Day 1.
We’ve come a long way since then, and we are working harder than ever to serve and delight customers.
Last year, we hired 500,000 employees and now directly employ 1.3 million people around the world. We have
more than 200 million Prime members worldwide. More than 1.9 million small and medium-sized businesses
sell in our store, and they make up close to 60% of our retail sales. Customers have connected more than
100 million smart home devices to Alexa. Amazon Web Services serves millions of customers and ended 2020
with a $50 billion annualized run rate. In 1997, we hadn’t invented Prime, Marketplace, Alexa, or AWS.
They weren’t even ideas then, and none was preordained. We took great risk with each one and put sweat
and ingenuity into each one.
Along the way, we’ve created $1.6 trillion of wealth for shareowners. Who are they? Your Chair is one, and
my Amazon shares have made me wealthy. But more than 7/8ths of the shares, representing $1.4 trillion of
wealth creation, are owned by others. Who are they? They’re pension funds, universities, and 401(k)s, and
they’re Mary and Larry, who sent me this note out of the blue just as I was sitting down to write this
shareholder letter:
I am approached with similar stories all the time. I know people who’ve used their Amazon money for
college, for emergencies, for houses, for vacations, to start their own business, for charity – and the list goes
on. I’m proud of the wealth we’ve created for shareowners. It’s significant, and it improves their lives. But I
also know something else: it’s not the largest part of the value we’ve created.
Create More Than You Consume
If you want to be successful in business (in life, actually), you have to create more than you consume. Your
goal should be to create value for everyone you interact with. Any business that doesn’t create value for those
it touches, even if it appears successful on the surface, isn’t long for this world. It’s on the way out.
Remember that stock prices are not about the past. They are a prediction of future cash flows discounted
back to the present. The stock market anticipates. I’m going to switch gears for a moment and talk about the
past. How much value did we create for shareowners in 2020? This is a relatively easy question to answer
because accounting systems are set up to answer it. Our net income in 2020 was $21.3 billion. If, instead of
being a publicly traded company with thousands of owners, Amazon were a sole proprietorship with a single
owner, that’s how much the owner would have earned in 2020.
How about employees? This is also a reasonably easy value creation question to answer because we can look
at compensation expense. What is an expense for a company is income for employees. In 2020, employees
earned $80 billion, plus another $11 billion to include benefits and various payroll taxes, for a total of
$91 billion.
How about third-party sellers? We have an internal team (the Selling Partner Services team) that works to
answer that question. They estimate that, in 2020, third-party seller profits from selling on Amazon were
between $25 billion and $39 billion, and to be conservative here I’ll go with $25 billion.
For customers, we have to break it down into consumer customers and AWS customers.
We’ll do consumers first. We offer low prices, vast selection, and fast delivery, but imagine we ignore all of
that for the purpose of this estimate and value only one thing: we save customers time.
Customers complete 28% of purchases on Amazon in three minutes or less, and half of all purchases are
finished in less than 15 minutes. Compare that to the typical shopping trip to a physical store – driving,
parking, searching store aisles, waiting in the checkout line, finding your car, and driving home. Research
suggests the typical physical store trip takes about an hour. If you assume that a typical Amazon purchase
takes 15 minutes and that it saves you a couple of trips to a physical store a week, that’s more than 75
hours a year saved. That’s important. We’re all busy in the early 21st century.
So that we can get a dollar figure, let’s value the time savings at $10 per hour, which is conservative. Seventyfive hours multiplied by $10 an hour and subtracting the cost of Prime gives you value creation for each
Prime member of about $630. We have 200 million Prime members, for a total in 2020 of $126 billion of value
creation.
AWS is challenging to estimate because each customer’s workload is so different, but we’ll do it anyway,
acknowledging up front that the error bars are high. Direct cost improvements from operating in the cloud
versus on premises vary, but a reasonable estimate is 30%. Across AWS’s entire 2020 revenue of $45 billion,
that 30% would imply customer value creation of $19 billion (what would have cost them $64 billion on
their own cost $45 billion from AWS). The difficult part of this estimation exercise is that the direct cost
reduction is the smallest portion of the customer benefit of moving to the cloud. The bigger benefit is the
increased speed of software development – something that can significantly improve the customer’s
competitiveness and top line. We have no reasonable way of estimating that portion of customer value
except to say that it’s almost certainly larger than the direct cost savings. To be conservative here (and
remembering we’re really only trying to get ballpark estimates), I’ll say it’s the same and call AWS customer
value creation $38 billion in 2020.
Adding AWS and consumer together gives us total customer value creation in 2020 of $164 billion.
Summarizing:
Shareholders $21B
Employees $91B
3P Sellers $25B
Customers $164B
Total $301B
If each group had an income statement representing their interactions with Amazon, the numbers above
would be the “bottom lines” from those income statements. These numbers are part of the reason why people
work for us, why sellers sell through us, and why customers buy from us. We create value for them. And
this value creation is not a zero-sum game. It is not just moving money from one pocket to another. Draw
the box big around all of society, and you’ll find that invention is the root of all real value creation. And value
created is best thought of as a metric for innovation.
Of course, our relationship with these constituencies and the value we create isn’t exclusively dollars and
cents. Money doesn’t tell the whole story. Our relationship with shareholders, for example, is relatively simple.
They invest and hold shares for a duration of their choosing. We provide direction to shareowners
infrequently on matters such as annual meetings and the right process to vote their shares. And even then
they can ignore those directions and just skip voting.
Our relationship with employees is a very different example. We have processes they follow and standards
they meet. We require training and various certifications. Employees have to show up at appointed times. Our
interactions with employees are many, and they’re fine-grained. It’s not just about the pay and the benefits.
It’s about all the other detailed aspects of the relationship too.
Does your Chair take comfort in the outcome of the recent union vote in Bessemer? No, he doesn’t. I think
we need to do a better job for our employees. While the voting results were lopsided and our direct
relationship with employees is strong, it’s clear to me that we need a better vision for how we create value for
employees – a vision for their success.
If you read some of the news reports, you might think we have no care for employees. In those reports, our
employees are sometimes accused of being desperate souls and treated as robots. That’s not accurate. They’re
sophisticated and thoughtful people who have options for where to work. When we survey fulfillment
center employees, 94% say they would recommend Amazon to a friend as a place to work.
Employees are able to take informal breaks throughout their shifts to stretch, get water, use the rest room,
or talk to a manager, all without impacting their performance. These informal work breaks are in addition to
the 30-minute lunch and 30-minute break built into their normal schedule.
We don’t set unreasonable performance goals. We set achievable performance goals that take into account
tenure and actual employee performance data. Performance is evaluated over a long period of time as we
know that a variety of things can impact performance in any given week, day, or hour. If employees are on
track to miss a performance target over a period of time, their manager talks with them and provides
coaching.
Coaching is also extended to employees who are excelling and in line for increased responsibilities. In fact,
82% of coaching is positive, provided to employees who are meeting or exceeding expectations. We terminate
the employment of less than 2.6% of employees due to their inability to perform their jobs (and that
number was even lower in 2020 because of operational impacts of COVID-19).
Earth’s Best Employer and Earth’s Safest Place to Work
The fact is, the large team of thousands of people who lead operations at Amazon have always cared deeply
for our hourly employees, and we’re proud of the work environment we’ve created. We’re also proud of the
fact that Amazon is a company that does more than just create jobs for computer scientists and people with
advanced degrees. We create jobs for people who never got that advantage.
Despite what we’ve accomplished, it’s clear to me that we need a better vision for our employees’ success.
We have always wanted to be Earth’s Most Customer-Centric Company. We won’t change that. It’s what got
us here. But I am committing us to an addition. We are going to be Earth’s Best Employer and Earth’s
Safest Place to Work.
In my upcoming role as Executive Chair, I’m going to focus on new initiatives. I’m an inventor. It’s what I
enjoy the most and what I do best. It’s where I create the most value. I’m excited to work alongside the large
team of passionate people we have in Ops and help invent in this arena of Earth’s Best Employer and
Earth’s Safest Place to Work. On the details, we at Amazon are always flexible, but on matters of vision we
are stubborn and relentless. We have never failed when we set our minds to something, and we’re not going to
fail at this either.
We dive deep into safety issues. For example, about 40% of work-related injuries at Amazon are related to
musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs), things like sprains or strains that can be caused by repetitive motions.
MSDs are common in the type of work that we do and are more likely to occur during an employee’s first
six months. We need to invent solutions to reduce MSDs for new employees, many of whom might be
working in a physical role for the first time.
One such program is WorkingWell – which we launched to 859,000 employees at 350 sites across North
America and Europe in 2020 – where we coach small groups of employees on body mechanics, proactive
wellness, and safety. In addition to reducing workplace injuries, these concepts have a positive impact on
regular day-to-day activities outside work.
We’re developing new automated staffing schedules that use sophisticated algorithms to rotate employees
among jobs that use different muscle-tendon groups to decrease repetitive motion and help protect employees
from MSD risks. This new technology is central to a job rotation program that we’re rolling out throughout
2021.
Our increased attention to early MSD prevention is already achieving results. From 2019 to 2020, overall
MSDs decreased by 32%, and MSDs resulting in time away from work decreased by more than half.
We employ 6,200 safety professionals at Amazon. They use the science of safety to solve complex problems
and establish new industry best practices. In 2021, we’ll invest more than $300 million into safety projects,
including an initial $66 million to create technology that will help prevent collisions of forklifts and other
types of industrial vehicles.
When we lead, others follow. Two and a half years ago, when we set a $15 minimum wage for our hourly
employees, we did so because we wanted to lead on wages – not just run with the pack – and because we
believed it was the right thing to do. A recent paper by economists at the University of California-Berkeley
and Brandeis University analyzed the impact of our decision to raise our minimum starting pay to $15 per
hour. Their assessment reflects what we’ve heard from employees, their families, and the communities they
live in.
Our increase in starting wage boosted local economies across the country by benefiting not only our own
employees but also other workers in the same community. The study showed that our pay raise resulted in a
4.7% increase in the average hourly wage among other employers in the same labor market.
And we’re not done leading. If we want to be Earth’s Best Employer, we shouldn’t settle for 94% of
employees saying they would recommend Amazon to a friend as a place to work. We have to aim for 100%.
And we’ll do that by continuing to lead on wages, on benefits, on upskilling opportunities, and in other
ways that we will figure out over time.
If any shareowners are concerned that Earth’s Best Employer and Earth’s Safest Place to Work might dilute
our focus on Earth’s Most Customer-Centric Company, let me set your mind at ease. Think of it this way.
If we can operate two businesses as different as consumer ecommerce and AWS, and do both at the highest
level, we can certainly do the same with these two vision statements. In fact, I’m confident they will
reinforce each other.
The Climate Pledge
In an earlier draft of this letter, I started this section with arguments and examples designed to demonstrate
that human-induced climate change is real. But, bluntly, I think we can stop saying that now. You don’t
have to say that photosynthesis is real, or make the case that gravity is real, or that water boils at 100 degrees
Celsius at sea level. These things are simply true, as is the reality of climate change.
Not long ago, most people believed that it would be good to address climate change, but they also thought
it would cost a lot and would threaten jobs, competitiveness, and economic growth. We now know better.
Smart action on climate change will not only stop bad things from happening, it will also make our
economy more efficient, help drive technological change, and reduce risks. Combined, these can lead to
more and better jobs, healthier and happier children, more productive workers, and a more prosperous future.
This doesn’t mean it will be easy. It won’t be. The coming decade will be decisive. The economy in 2030 will
need to be vastly different from what it is today, and Amazon plans to be at the heart of the change. We
launched The Climate Pledge together with Global Optimism in September 2019 because we wanted to
help drive this positive revolution. We need to be part of a growing team of corporations that understand
the imperatives and the opportunities of the 21st century.
Now, less than two years later, 53 companies representing almost every sector of the economy have signed
The Climate Pledge. Signatories such as Best Buy, IBM, Infosys, Mercedes-Benz, Microsoft, Siemens, and
Verizon have committed to achieve net-zero carbon in their worldwide businesses by 2040, 10 years ahead of
the Paris Agreement. The Pledge also requires them to measure and report greenhouse gas emissions on a
regular basis; implement decarbonization strategies through real business changes and innovations; and
neutralize any remaining emissions with additional, quantifiable, real, permanent, and socially beneficial
offsets. Credible, quality offsets are precious, and we should reserve them to compensate for economic
activities where low-carbon alternatives don’t exist.
The Climate Pledge signatories are making meaningful, tangible, and ambitious commitments. Uber has a
goal of operating as a zero-emission platform in Canada, Europe, and the U.S. by 2030, and Henkel plans to
source 100% of the electricity it uses for production from renewable sources. Amazon is making progress
toward our own goal of 100% renewable energy by 2025, five years ahead of our initial 2030 target. Amazon
is the largest corporate buyer of renewable energy in the world. We have 62 utility-scale wind and solar
projects and 125 solar rooftops on fulfillment and sort centers around the globe. These projects have the
capacity to generate over 6.9 gigawatts and deliver more than 20 million megawatt-hours of energy annually.
Transportation is a major component of Amazon’s business operations and the toughest part of our plan
to meet net-zero carbon by 2040. To help rapidly accelerate the market for electric vehicle technology, and to
help all companies transition to greener technologies, we invested more than $1 billion in Rivian – and
ordered 100,000 electric delivery vans from the company. We’ve also partnered with Mahindra in India and
Mercedes-Benz in Europe. These custom electric delivery vehicles from Rivian are already operational, and
they first hit the road in Los Angeles this past February. Ten thousand new vehicles will be on the road as
early as next year, and all 100,000 vehicles will be on the road by 2030 – saving millions of metric tons of
carbon. A big reason we want companies to join The Climate Pledge is to signal to the marketplace that
businesses should start inventing and developing new technologies that signatories need to make good on
the Pledge. Our purchase of 100,000 Rivian electric vans is a perfect example.
To further accelerate investment in new technologies needed to build a zero-carbon economy, we introduced
the Climate Pledge Fund last June. The investment program started with $2 billion to invest in visionary
companies that aim to facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy. Amazon has already announced
investments in CarbonCure Technologies, Pachama, Redwood Materials, Rivian, Turntide Technologies,
ZeroAvia, and Infinium – and these are just some of the innovative companies we hope will build the zerocarbon economy of the future.
I have also personally allocated $10 billion to provide grants to help catalyze the systemic change we will
need in the coming decade. We’ll be supporting leading scientists, activists, NGOs, environmental justice
organizations, and others working to fight climate change and protect the natural world. Late last year, I made
my first round of grants to 16 organizations working on innovative and needle-moving solutions. It’s going
to take collective action from big companies, small companies, nation states, global organizations, and
individuals, and I’m excited to be part of this journey and optimistic that humanity can come together to
solve this challenge.
Differentiation is Survival and the Universe Wants You to be Typical
This is my last annual shareholder letter as the CEO of Amazon, and I have one last thing of utmost
importance I feel compelled to teach. I hope all Amazonians take it to heart.
Here is a passage from Richard Dawkins’ (extraordinary) book The Blind Watchmaker. It’s about a basic
fact of biology.
“Staving off death is a thing that you have to work at. Left to itself – and that is what it is when it
dies – the body tends to revert to a state of equilibrium with its environment. If you measure some
quantity such as the temperature, the acidity, the water content or the electrical potential in a living
body, you will typically find that it is markedly different from the corresponding measure in the
surroundings. Our bodies, for instance, are usually hotter than our surroundings, and in cold climates
they have to work hard to maintain the differential. When we die the work stops, the temperature
differential starts to disappear, and we end up the same temperature as our surroundings. Not all
animals work so hard to avoid coming into equilibrium with their surrounding temperature, but all
animals do some comparable work. For instance, in a dry country, animals and plants work to
maintain the fluid content of their cells, work against a natural tendency for water to flow from them
into the dry outside world. If they fail they die. More generally, if living things didn’t work actively to
prevent it, they would eventually merge into their surroundings, and cease to exist as autonomous
beings. That is what happens when they die.”
While the passage is not intended as a metaphor, it’s nevertheless a fantastic one, and very relevant to
Amazon. I would argue that it’s relevant to all companies and all institutions and to each of our individual
lives too. In what ways does the world pull at you in an attempt to make you normal? How much work does it
take to maintain your distinctiveness? To keep alive the thing or things that make you special?
I know a happily married couple who have a running joke in their relationship. Not infrequently, the
husband looks at the wife with faux distress and says to her, “Can’t you just be normal?” They both smile
and laugh, and of course the deep truth is that her distinctiveness is something he loves about her. But, at the
same time, it’s also true that things would often be easier – take less energy – if we were a little more
normal.
This phenomenon happens at all scale levels. Democracies are not normal. Tyranny is the historical norm. If
we stopped doing all of the continuous hard work that is needed to maintain our distinctiveness in that
regard, we would quickly come into equilibrium with tyranny.
We all know that distinctiveness – originality – is valuable. We are all taught to “be yourself.” What I’m
really asking you to do is to embrace and be realistic about how much energy it takes to maintain that
distinctiveness. The world wants you to be typical – in a thousand ways, it pulls at you. Don’t let it happen.
You have to pay a price for your distinctiveness, and it’s worth it. The fairy tale version of “be yourself ” is that
all the pain stops as soon as you allow your distinctiveness to shine. That version is misleading. Being
yourself is worth it, but don’t expect it to be easy or free. You’ll have to put energy into it continuously.
The world will always try to make Amazon more typical – to bring us into equilibrium with our environment.
It will take continuous effort, but we can and must be better than that.
***
As always, I attach our 1997 shareholder letter. It concluded with this: “We at Amazon.com are grateful to
our customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our shareholders for their
support and encouragement.” That hasn’t changed a bit. I want to especially thank Andy Jassy for agreeing
to take on the CEO role. It’s a hard job with a lot of responsibility. Andy is brilliant and has the highest
of high standards. I guarantee you that Andy won’t let the universe make us typical. He will muster the
energy needed to keep alive in us what makes us special. That won’t be easy, but it is critical. I also predict it
will be satisfying and oftentimes fun. Thank you, Andy.
To all of you: be kind, be original, create more than you consume, and never, never, never let the universe
smooth you into your surroundings. It remains Day 1


To our shareholders, customers, and employees:
The last 3½ years have been exciting. We’ve served a cumulative 6.2 million
customers, exited 1998 with a $1 billion revenue run rate, launched music, video, and gift
stores in the U.S., opened shop in the U.K. and Germany, and, just recently, launched
Amazon.com Auctions.
We predict the next 3½ years will be even more exciting. We are working to
build a place where tens of millions of customers can come to find and discover anything
they might want to buy online. It is truly Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute our
business plan well, it remains Day 1 for Amazon.com. Given what’s happened, it may be
difficult to conceive, but we think the opportunities and risks ahead of us are even greater
than those behind us. We will have to make many conscious and deliberate choices,
some of which will be bold and unconventional. Hopefully, some will turn out to be
winners. Certainly, some will turn out to be mistakes.
A Recap of 1998
Heads-down focus on customers helped us make substantial progress in 1998:
• Sales grew from $148 million in 1997 to $610 million – a 313% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 1.5 million at the end of 1997 to 6.2
million at the end of 1998 – an increase of over 300%.
• Despite this strong new customer growth, the percentage of orders placed on the
Amazon.com Web site by repeat customers grew from over 58% in the fourth
quarter of 1997 to over 64% in the same period in 1998.
• Our first major product expansion, the Amazon.com music store, became the
leading online music retailer in its first full quarter.
• Following their October launch under the Amazon brand and with Amazon.com
technology, the combined fourth-quarter sales in the U.K. and German stores
nearly quadrupled over the third quarter, establishing Amazon.co.uk and
Amazon.de as the leading online booksellers in their markets.
• The addition of music was followed by the addition of video and gifts in
November, and we became the leading online video retailer in only 6 weeks.
• 25% of our fourth-quarter 1998 sales was derived from Amazon.co.uk,
Amazon.de, and music, video, and gift sales on Amazon.com, all very new
businesses.
• We significantly improved the customer experience, with innovations like 1-
ClickSM shopping, Gift Click, store-wide sales rank, and instant recommendations.
1998’s revenue and customer growth and achievement of continued growth in 1999
were and are dependent on expansion of our infrastructure. Some highlights:
• In 1998 our employee base grew from approximately 600 to over 2,100, and we
significantly strengthened our management team.
• We opened distribution and customer service centers in the U.K. and Germany,
and in early 1999, announced the lease of a highly-mechanized distribution center
of approximately 323,000 square feet in Fernley, Nevada. This latest addition
will more than double our total distribution capacity and allows us to even further
improve time-to-mailbox for customers.
• Inventories rose from $9 million at the beginning of the year to $30 million by
year end, enabling us to improve product availability for our customers and
improve product costs through direct purchasing from manufacturers.
• Our cash and investment balances, following our May 1998 high yield debt
offering and early 1999 convertible debt offering, now stand at well over $1.5
billion (on a pro forma basis), affording us substantial financial strength and
strategic flexibility.
We’re fortunate to benefit from a business model that is cash-favored and capital
efficient. As we do not need to build physical stores or stock those stores with inventory,
our centralized distribution model has allowed us to build our business to a billion-dollar
sales rate with just $30 million in inventory and $30 million in net plant and equipment.
In 1998, we generated $31 million in operating cash flow which more than offset net
fixed asset additions of $28 million.
Our Customers
We intend to build the world’s most customer-centric company. We hold as
axiomatic that customers are perceptive and smart, and that brand image follows reality
and not the other way around. Our customers tell us that they choose Amazon.com and
tell their friends about us because of the selection, ease-of-use, low prices, and service
that we deliver.
But there is no rest for the weary. I constantly remind our employees to be afraid,
to wake up every morning terrified. Not of our competition, but of our customers. Our
customers have made our business what it is, they are the ones with whom we have a
relationship, and they are the ones to whom we owe a great obligation. And we consider
them to be loyal to us – right up until the second that someone else offers them a better
service.
We must be committed to constant improvement, experimentation, and innovation
in every initiative. We love to be pioneers, it’s in the DNA of the company, and it’s a
good thing, too, because we’ll need that pioneering spirit to succeed. We’re proud of the
differentiation we’ve built through constant innovation and relentless focus on customer
experience, and we believe our initiatives in 1998 reflect it: our music, video, U.K. and
German stores, like our U.S. bookstore, are best of breed.
Work Hard, Have Fun, Make History
It would be impossible to produce results in an environment as dynamic as the
Internet without extraordinary people. Working to create a little bit of history isn’t
supposed to be easy, and, well, we’re finding that things are as they’re supposed to be!
We now have a team of 2,100 smart, hard-working, passionate folks who put customers
first. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring has been, and will continue to be, the
single most important element of Amazon.com’s success.
During our hiring meetings, we ask people to consider three questions before making
a decision:
• Will you admire this person? If you think about the people you’ve admired in
your life, they are probably people you’ve been able to learn from or take an
example from. For myself, I’ve always tried hard to work only with people I
admire, and I encourage folks here to be just as demanding. Life is definitely too
short to do otherwise.
• Will this person raise the average level of effectiveness of the group they’re
entering? We want to fight entropy. The bar has to continuously go up. I ask
people to visualize the company 5 years from now. At that point, each of us
should look around and say, “The standards are so high now -- boy, I’m glad I got
in when I did!”
• Along what dimension might this person be a superstar? Many people have
unique skills, interests, and perspectives that enrich the work environment for all
of us. It’s often something that’s not even related to their jobs. One person here
is a National Spelling Bee champion (1978, I believe). I suspect it doesn’t help
her in her everyday work, but it does make working here more fun if you can
occasionally snag her in the hall with a quick challenge: “onomatopoeia!”
Goals for 1999
As we look forward, we believe that the overall e-commerce opportunity is enormous,
and 1999 will be an important year. Although Amazon.com has established a strong
leadership position, it is certain that competition will even further accelerate. We plan to
invest aggressively to build the foundation for a multi-billion-dollar revenue company
serving tens of millions of customers with operational excellence and high efficiency.
Although this level of forward investment is costly and carries many inherent risks, we
believe it will provide the best end-to-end experience for customers, and actually offer
the least risky long-term value creation approach for investors.
The elements of our 1999 plan may not surprise you:
Distribution capacity − We intend to build out a significant distribution infrastructure
to ensure that we can support all the sales our customers demand, with speedy access to a
deep product inventory.
Systems capacity − We’ll be expanding our systems capacity to support similar
growth levels. The systems group has a significant task: expand to meet near term
growth, restructure systems for multi-billion dollar scale and tens of millions of
customers, build out features and systems for new initiatives and new innovations, and
increase operational excellence and efficiency. All while keeping a billion dollar, 8
million customer store up and available on a 24x7 basis.
Brand promise − Amazon.com is still a small and young company relative to the
major offline retailers, and we must ensure that we build wide, strong customer
relationships during this critical period.
Expanded product and service offerings − In 1999, we will continue to enhance the
scope of our current product and service offerings, as well as add new initiatives.
Amazon.com Auctions is our most recent addition. If any of you have not tried this new
service, I encourage you to run – not walk – to www.amazon.com and click on the
Auctions tab. As an Amazon.com customer, you are pre-registered to both bid and sell.
As a seller, you have access to Amazon.com’s 8 million experienced online shoppers.
Bench strength and processes − We’ve complicated our business dramatically with
new products, services, geographies, acquisitions and additions to our business model.
We intend to invest in teams, processes, communication and people development
practices. Scaling in this way is among the most challenging and difficult elements of
our plan.
Amazon.com has made a number of strides forward in the past year, but there is still
an enormous amount to learn and to do. We remain optimistic, but we also know we must
remain vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. We face many challenges and hurdles.
Among them, aggressive, capable and well-funded competition; the growth challenges
and execution risk associated with our own expansion; and the need for large continuing
investments to meet an expanding market opportunity.
The most important thing I could say in this letter was said in last years’ letter, which
detailed our long-term investment approach. Because we have so many new shareholders
(this year we’re printing more than 200,000 of these letters – last year we printed about
13,000), we’ve appended last year’s letter immediately after this year’s. I invite you to
please read the section entitled It’s All About the Long Term. You might want to read it
twice to make sure we’re the kind of company you want to be invested in. As it says
there, we don’t claim it’s the right philosophy, we just claim it’s ours!
All the best and sincere thanks once again to our customers and shareholders and all
the folks here who are working passionately every day to build an important and lasting
company.
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
 (Reprinted from the 1997 Annual Report)
To our shareholders:
Amazon.com passed many milestones in 1997: by year-end, we had served more
than 1.5 million customers, yielding 838% revenue growth to $147.8 million, and
extended our market leadership despite aggressive competitive entry.
But this is Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute well, for Amazon.com. Today,
online commerce saves customers money and precious time. Tomorrow, through
personalization, online commerce will accelerate the very process of discovery.
Amazon.com uses the Internet to create real value for its customers and, by doing so,
hopes to create an enduring franchise, even in established and large markets.
We have a window of opportunity as larger players marshal the resources to pursue
the online opportunity and as customers, new to purchasing online, are receptive to
forming new relationships. The competitive landscape has continued to evolve at a fast
pace. Many large players have moved online with credible offerings and have devoted
substantial energy and resources to building awareness, traffic, and sales. Our goal is to
move quickly to solidify and extend our current position while we begin to pursue the
online commerce opportunities in other areas. We see substantial opportunity in the large
markets we are targeting. This strategy is not without risk: it requires serious investment
and crisp execution against established franchise leaders.
It's All About the Long Term
We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the shareholder value
we create over the long term. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend
and solidify our current market leadership position. The stronger our market leadership,
the more powerful our economic model. Market leadership can translate directly to
higher revenue, higher profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger
returns on invested capital.
Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in
terms of the metrics most indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue
growth, the degree to which our customers continue to purchase from us on a repeat
basis, and the strength of our brand. We have invested and will continue to invest
aggressively to expand and leverage our customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we
move to establish an enduring franchise.
Because of our emphasis on the long term, we may make decisions and weigh
tradeoffs differently than some companies. Accordingly, we want to share with you our
fundamental management and decision-making approach so that you, our shareholders,
may confirm that it is consistent with your investment philosophy:
• We will continue to focus relentlessly on our customers.
• We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market
leadership considerations rather than short-term profitability considerations or
short-term Wall Street reactions.
• We will continue to measure our programs and the effectiveness of our
investments analytically, to jettison those that do not provide acceptable returns,
and to step up our investment in those that work best. We will continue to learn
from both our successes and our failures.
• We will make bold rather than timid investment decisions where we see a
sufficient probability of gaining market leadership advantages. Some of these
investments will pay off, others will not, and we will have learned another
valuable lesson in either case.
• When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP
accounting and maximizing the present value of future cash flows, we'll take the
cash flows.
• We will share our strategic thought processes with you when we make bold
choices (to the extent competitive pressures allow), so that you may evaluate for
yourselves whether we are making rational long-term leadership investments.
• We will work hard to spend wisely and maintain our lean culture. We understand
the importance of continually reinforcing a cost-conscious culture, particularly in
a business incurring net losses.
• We will balance our focus on growth with emphasis on long-term profitability and
capital management. At this stage, we choose to prioritize growth because we
believe that scale is central to achieving the potential of our business model.
• We will continue to focus on hiring and retaining versatile and talented
employees, and continue to weight their compensation to stock options rather than
cash. We know our success will be largely affected by our ability to attract and
retain a motivated employee base, each of whom must think like, and therefore
must actually be, an owner.
We aren't so bold as to claim that the above is the "right" investment philosophy, but
it's ours, and we would be remiss if we weren't clear in the approach we have taken and
will continue to take.
With this foundation, we would like to turn to a review of our business focus, our
progress in 1997, and our outlook for the future.
Obsess Over Customers
From the beginning, our focus has been on offering our customers compelling value.
We realized that the Web was, and still is, the World Wide Wait. Therefore, we set out to
offer customers something they simply could not get any other way, and began serving
them with books. We brought them much more selection than was possible in a physical
store (our store would now occupy 6 football fields), and presented it in a useful, easy-tosearch, and easy-to-browse format in a store open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. We
maintained a dogged focus on improving the shopping experience, and in 1997
substantially enhanced our store. We now offer customers gift certificates, 1-Click(SM)
shopping, and vastly more reviews, content, browsing options, and recommendation
features. We dramatically lowered prices, further increasing customer value. Word of
mouth remains the most powerful customer acquisition tool we have, and we are grateful
for the trust our customers have placed in us. Repeat purchases and word of mouth have
combined to make Amazon.com the market leader in online bookselling.
By many measures, Amazon.com came a long way in 1997:
• Sales grew from $15.7 million in 1996 to $147.8 million – an 838% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 180,000 to 1,510,000 – a 738%
increase.
• The percentage of orders from repeat customers grew from over 46% in the fourth
quarter of 1996 to over 58% in the same period in 1997.
• In terms of audience reach, per Media Metrix, our Web site went from a rank of
90th to within the top 20.
• We established long-term relationships with many important strategic partners,
including America Online, Yahoo!, Excite, Netscape, GeoCities, AltaVista,
@Home, and Prodigy.
Infrastructure
During 1997, we worked hard to expand our business infrastructure to support these
greatly increased traffic, sales, and service levels:
• Amazon.com's employee base grew from 158 to 614, and we significantly
strengthened our management team.
• Distribution center capacity grew from 50,000 to 285,000 square feet, including a
70% expansion of our Seattle facilities and the launch of our second distribution
center in Delaware in November.
• Inventories rose to over 200,000 titles at year-end, enabling us to improve
availability for our customers.
• Our cash and investment balances at year-end were $125 million, thanks to our
initial public offering in May 1997 and our $75 million loan, affording us
substantial strategic flexibility.
Our Employees
The past year's success is the product of a talented, smart, hard-working group, and I
take great pride in being a part of this team. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring
has been, and will continue to be, the single most important element of Amazon.com's
success.
It's not easy to work here (when I interview people I tell them, “You can work long,
hard, or smart, but at Amazon.com you can't choose two out of three"), but we are
working to build something important, something that matters to our customers,
something that we can all tell our grandchildren about. Such things aren't meant to be
easy. We are incredibly fortunate to have this group of dedicated employees whose
sacrifices and passion build Amazon.com.
Goals for 1998
We are still in the early stages of learning how to bring new value to our customers
through Internet commerce and merchandising. Our goal remains to continue to solidify
and extend our brand and customer base. This requires sustained investment in systems
and infrastructure to support outstanding customer convenience, selection, and service
while we grow. We are planning to add music to our product offering, and over time we
believe that other products may be prudent investments. We also believe there are
significant opportunities to better serve our customers overseas, such as reducing delivery
times and better tailoring the customer experience. To be certain, a big part of the
challenge for us will lie not in finding new ways to expand our business, but in
prioritizing our investments.
We now know vastly more about online commerce than when Amazon.com was
founded, but we still have so much to learn. Though we are optimistic, we must remain
vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. The challenges and hurdles we will face to
make our long-term vision for Amazon.com a reality are several: aggressive, capable,
well-funded competition; considerable growth challenges and execution risk; the risks of
product and geographic expansion; and the need for large continuing investments to
meet an expanding market opportunity. However, as we've long said, online
bookselling, and online commerce in general, should prove to be a very large market,
and it's likely that a number of companies will see significant benefit. We feel good
about what we've done, and even more excited about what we want to do.
1997 was indeed an incredible year. We at Amazon.com are grateful to our
customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our
shareholders for their support and encouragement.


To our shareholders:
The first 4½ years of our journey have yielded some amazing results: we’ve now served
over 17 million customers in over 150 countries and built the leading global e-commerce
brand and platform.
In the coming years we expect to benefit from the continued adoption of online
commerce around the world as millions of new consumers connect to the Internet for the
first time. As the online shopping experience continues to improve, consumer trust and
confidence will increase, driving further adoption. And, if we at Amazon.com do our job
right, we can be uniquely positioned to serve these new customers best and benefit as a
result.
A Recap of 1999
During 1999, our relentless focus on customers worked:
• Sales grew from $610 million in 1998 to $1.64 billion – a 169 percent increase.
• We added 10.7 million new customers, increasing cumulative customer accounts
from 6.2 million to 16.9 million.
• The percentage of orders placed by repeat customers grew from over 64 percent
in the fourth quarter of 1998 to greater than 73 percent in the same period in 1999.
• Customers around the world are now choosing Amazon.com for a wide array of
products. Only two years ago, Amazon.com's U.S. Books business represented
100 percent of our sales. Today, despite strong growth in U.S. Books, other areas
account for more than half our sales. Major 1999 initiatives included Auctions,
zShops, Toys, Consumer Electronics, Home Improvement, Software, Video
Games, Payments and our wireless initiative, Amazon Anywhere.
• We've continued to be recognized as best-of-breed not only in our more
established areas such as books, but in our newer stores as well. Just to focus on
one area, Amazon Toys has received multiple awards, including being rated the
best online toy store in an MSNBC survey, a ranking as the No. 1 on-line toy
store by Forrester Research, and the top e-Rating from Consumer Reports in the
toys category, in each case beating out a number of longer-established players.
• Sales outside of the US accounted for 22 percent of our business, totaling $358
million. In the U.K. and Germany, we added Music, Auctions and zShops. In
fact, Amazon.co.uk, Amazon.de, and Amazon.com are now the #1, #2, and #3
most popular online retail domains in Europe.
• We grew worldwide distribution capacity from roughly 300,000 square feet to
over 5 million square feet in less than 12 months.
• In part because of this infrastructure, we were able to grow revenues 90 percent in
just three months, while shipping well over 99 percent of our holiday orders in
time for the holidays. As far as we can determine, no other company has ever
grown 90 percent in three months on a sales base of over $1 billion.
I’m incredibly proud of everyone at Amazon.com for their tireless efforts to deliver what
has become the standard-setting, Amazon.com-class customer experience while
simultaneously handling such extraordinary growth rates. If any of you shareholders
would like to thank this incredible worldwide team of Amazonians, please feel free to
send an email to jeff@amazon.com. With help from my astounding office staff, I’ll
compile them and send them to the company. I know it would be appreciated. (As a side
benefit I’ll get to see if anyone reads these letters!)
In 1999, we continued to benefit from a business model that is inherently capital efficient.
We don’t need to build physical stores or stock those stores with inventory, and our
centralized distribution model has allowed us to build a business with over $2 billion in
annualized sales but requiring just $220 million in inventory and $318 million in fixed
assets. Over the last five years, we’ve cumulatively used just $62 million in operating
cash.
What Do You Own?
At a recent event at the Stanford University campus, a young woman came to the
microphone and asked me a great question: “I have 100 shares of Amazon.com. What do
I own?”
I was surprised I hadn’t heard it before, at least not so simply put. What do you own?
You own a piece of the leading e-commerce platform.
The Amazon.com platform is comprised of brand, customers, technology, distribution
capability, deep e-commerce expertise, and a great team with a passion for innovation
and a passion for serving customers well. We begin the year 2000 with 17 million
customers, a world-wide reputation for customer focus, the best e-commerce software
systems, and purpose-built distribution and customer service infrastructure. We believe
we have reached a “tipping point,” where this platform allows us to launch new ecommerce businesses faster, with a higher quality of customer experience, a lower
incremental cost, a higher chance of success, and a faster path to scale and profitability
than any other company.
Our vision is to use this platform to build Earth’s most customer-centric company, a
place where customers can come to find and discover anything and everything they might
want to buy online. We won’t do so alone, but together with what will be thousands of
partners of all sizes. We’ll listen to customers, invent on their behalf, and personalize the
store for each of them, all while working hard to continue to earn their trust. As is
probably clear, this platform affords an unusually large scale opportunity, one that should
prove very valuable for both customers and shareholders if we can make the most of it.
Despite the many risks and complexities, we are deeply committed to doing so.
Goals for 2000
In the year 2000, Amazon.com has six major goals: growth in both the number of our
customers and the strength of the relationship we have with each of them; continued rapid
expansion of the products and services we offer; driving operational excellence in all
areas of the company; international expansion; expanding our partnership programs; and
last, importantly, driving toward profitability in each and every business we are in. I’ll
spend a moment on each goal.
Growing and strengthening customer relationships  We will continue to invest
heavily in introductions to new customers. Though it’s sometimes hard to imagine with
all that has happened in the last five years, this remains Day 1 for e-commerce, and these
are the early days of category formation where many customers are forming relationships
for the first time. We must work hard to grow the number of customers who shop with
us, the number of products they purchase, the frequency with which they shop, and the
level of satisfaction they have when they do so.
Product and service expansion  We are working to build a place where customers can
find and discover anything they want to buy, anytime, anywhere. Each new product and
service we offer makes us more relevant to a wider group of customers and can increase
the frequency with which they visit our store. So, as we expand our offering, we create a
virtuous cycle for the whole business. The more frequently customers visit our store, the
less time, energy, and marketing investment is required to get them to come back again.
In sight, in mind.
Further, as we expand, each new store has a dedicated team working to make it best-ofbreed in its category; thus each new store is also a new opportunity to demonstrate to
customers our focus on them. Finally, each new product or service further leverages our
investments in distribution, customer service, technology, and brand, and can yield
increased leverage on our bottom line.
Operational excellence  To us, operational excellence implies two things: delivering
continuous improvement in customer experience and driving productivity, margin,
efficiency, and asset velocity across all our businesses.
Often, the best way to drive one of these is to deliver the other. For instance, more
efficient distribution yields faster delivery times, which in turn lowers contacts per order
and customer service costs. These, in turn, improve customer experience and build
brand, which in turn decreases customer acquisition and retention costs.
Our whole company is highly focused on driving operational excellence in each area of
our business in 2000. Being world class in both customer experience and operations will
allow us to grow faster and deliver even higher service levels.
International expansion  We think that consumers outside the U.S. are even more
under-served by retail than those within it, and, with our platform in place, Amazon.com
is well positioned to be a leading global retailer. We already have significant brand, sales
and customer presence around the world, as we’ve been shipping into over 150 countries
for almost five years. I’m pleased to report that our stores in the UK and Germany are off
to a strong start − they are already in the top 10 Web properties and the # 1 e-commerce
site in each of their respective countries. Our customers and shareholders around the
world can look forward to further geographic expansion from this base during the coming
year.
Expanding our partnership program  Through our platform, we are able to bring
tremendous value to our partners, such as drugstore.com. In fact, our experience so far
suggests that Amazon.com may easily be the most efficient, effective means for our
partners to build their businesses. In many areas, partnering is the best way for us to
rapidly expand our store in a customer-focused, cost-effective manner. One point worth
emphasizing: the quality of customer experience a partner delivers is the single most
important criteria in our selection process − we simply won’t build a partnership with any
company that does not share our passion for serving customers.
We love these kinds of partnerships because they please customers, please our partners,
and are financially attractive, pleasing our shareholders − you and us.
Drive toward profitability in each business we are in  Each of the previous goals
I’ve outlined contribute to our long-standing objective of building the best, most
profitable, highest return on capital, long-term franchise. So in a way, driving
profitability is the foundation underlying all of these goals. In the coming year, we
expect to deliver substantial margin improvement and cost leverage as we drive
continuous improvement in our partnerships with suppliers, in our own productivity and
efficiency, in our management of fixed and working capital, and our expertise in
managing product mix and price.
Each successive product and service we launch this year should build on our platform, so
our investment curve can be less steep and the time to profitability for each business
should, in general, continue to shorten.
It’s All About the Long Term
In our 1997 letter to shareholders (our first), we detailed our long-term investment
approach. Because we continue to add many new shareholders, we’ve appended that
letter immediately after this year’s. I invite you to please read the section entitled It’s All
About the Long Term, as it is the best way I know to help make sure we’re the kind of
company you want to be invested in. As we wrote there, we don’t claim it’s the right
philosophy, we just claim it’s ours!
In closing, consider this most important point: the current online shopping experience is
the worst it will ever be. It’s good enough today to attract 17 million customers, but it
will get so much better. Increased bandwidth will result in faster page views and richer
content. Further improvements will lead to “always-on access” (which I expect will be a
strong boost to online shopping at home, as opposed to the office) and we’ll see
significant growth in non-PC devices and wireless access. Moreover, it’s great to be
participating in what is a multi-trillion dollar global market, in which we are so very, very
tiny. We are doubly-blessed. We have a market-size unconstrained opportunity in an
area where the underlying foundational technology we employ improves every day. That
is not normal.
As always, we at Amazon.com remain grateful to our customers for their business and
trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our shareholders for their support and
encouragement. Many, many thanks.
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
 (Reprinted from the 1997 Annual Report)
To our shareholders:
Amazon.com passed many milestones in 1997: by year-end, we had served more
than 1.5 million customers, yielding 838% revenue growth to $147.8 million, and
extended our market leadership despite aggressive competitive entry.
But this is Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute well, for Amazon.com. Today,
online commerce saves customers money and precious time. Tomorrow, through
personalization, online commerce will accelerate the very process of discovery.
Amazon.com uses the Internet to create real value for its customers and, by doing so,
hopes to create an enduring franchise, even in established and large markets.
We have a window of opportunity as larger players marshal the resources to pursue
the online opportunity and as customers, new to purchasing online, are receptive to
forming new relationships. The competitive landscape has continued to evolve at a fast
pace. Many large players have moved online with credible offerings and have devoted
substantial energy and resources to building awareness, traffic, and sales. Our goal is to
move quickly to solidify and extend our current position while we begin to pursue the
online commerce opportunities in other areas. We see substantial opportunity in the large
markets we are targeting. This strategy is not without risk: it requires serious investment
and crisp execution against established franchise leaders.
It's All About the Long Term
We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the shareholder value
we create over the long term. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend
and solidify our current market leadership position. The stronger our market leadership,
the more powerful our economic model. Market leadership can translate directly to
higher revenue, higher profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger
returns on invested capital.
Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in
terms of the metrics most indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue
growth, the degree to which our customers continue to purchase from us on a repeat
basis, and the strength of our brand. We have invested and will continue to invest
aggressively to expand and leverage our customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we
move to establish an enduring franchise.
Because of our emphasis on the long term, we may make decisions and weigh
tradeoffs differently than some companies. Accordingly, we want to share with you our
fundamental management and decision-making approach so that you, our shareholders,
may confirm that it is consistent with your investment philosophy:
• We will continue to focus relentlessly on our customers.
• We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market
leadership considerations rather than short-term profitability considerations or
short-term Wall Street reactions.
• We will continue to measure our programs and the effectiveness of our
investments analytically, to jettison those that do not provide acceptable returns,
and to step up our investment in those that work best. We will continue to learn
from both our successes and our failures.
• We will make bold rather than timid investment decisions where we see a
sufficient probability of gaining market leadership advantages. Some of these
investments will pay off, others will not, and we will have learned another
valuable lesson in either case.
• When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP
accounting and maximizing the present value of future cash flows, we'll take the
cash flows.
• We will share our strategic thought processes with you when we make bold
choices (to the extent competitive pressures allow), so that you may evaluate for
yourselves whether we are making rational long-term leadership investments.
• We will work hard to spend wisely and maintain our lean culture. We understand
the importance of continually reinforcing a cost-conscious culture, particularly in
a business incurring net losses.
• We will balance our focus on growth with emphasis on long-term profitability and
capital management. At this stage, we choose to prioritize growth because we
believe that scale is central to achieving the potential of our business model.
• We will continue to focus on hiring and retaining versatile and talented
employees, and continue to weight their compensation to stock options rather than
cash. We know our success will be largely affected by our ability to attract and
retain a motivated employee base, each of whom must think like, and therefore
must actually be, an owner.
We aren't so bold as to claim that the above is the "right" investment philosophy, but
it's ours, and we would be remiss if we weren't clear in the approach we have taken and
will continue to take.
With this foundation, we would like to turn to a review of our business focus, our
progress in 1997, and our outlook for the future.
Obsess Over Customers
From the beginning, our focus has been on offering our customers compelling value.
We realized that the Web was, and still is, the World Wide Wait. Therefore, we set out to
offer customers something they simply could not get any other way, and began serving
them with books. We brought them much more selection than was possible in a physical
store (our store would now occupy 6 football fields), and presented it in a useful, easy-tosearch, and easy-to-browse format in a store open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. We
maintained a dogged focus on improving the shopping experience, and in 1997
substantially enhanced our store. We now offer customers gift certificates, 1-Click(SM)
shopping, and vastly more reviews, content, browsing options, and recommendation
features. We dramatically lowered prices, further increasing customer value. Word of
mouth remains the most powerful customer acquisition tool we have, and we are grateful
for the trust our customers have placed in us. Repeat purchases and word of mouth have
combined to make Amazon.com the market leader in online bookselling.
By many measures, Amazon.com came a long way in 1997:
• Sales grew from $15.7 million in 1996 to $147.8 million – an 838% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 180,000 to 1,510,000 – a 738%
increase.
• The percentage of orders from repeat customers grew from over 46% in the fourth
quarter of 1996 to over 58% in the same period in 1997.
• In terms of audience reach, per Media Metrix, our Web site went from a rank of
90th to within the top 20.
• We established long-term relationships with many important strategic partners,
including America Online, Yahoo!, Excite, Netscape, GeoCities, AltaVista,
@Home, and Prodigy.
Infrastructure
During 1997, we worked hard to expand our business infrastructure to support these
greatly increased traffic, sales, and service levels:
• Amazon.com's employee base grew from 158 to 614, and we significantly
strengthened our management team.
• Distribution center capacity grew from 50,000 to 285,000 square feet, including a
70% expansion of our Seattle facilities and the launch of our second distribution
center in Delaware in November.
• Inventories rose to over 200,000 titles at year-end, enabling us to improve
availability for our customers.
• Our cash and investment balances at year-end were $125 million, thanks to our
initial public offering in May 1997 and our $75 million loan, affording us
substantial strategic flexibility.
Our Employees
The past year's success is the product of a talented, smart, hard-working group, and I
take great pride in being a part of this team. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring
has been, and will continue to be, the single most important element of Amazon.com's
success.
It's not easy to work here (when I interview people I tell them, “You can work long,
hard, or smart, but at Amazon.com you can't choose two out of three"), but we are
working to build something important, something that matters to our customers,
something that we can all tell our grandchildren about. Such things aren't meant to be
easy. We are incredibly fortunate to have this group of dedicated employees whose
sacrifices and passion build Amazon.com.
Goals for 1998
We are still in the early stages of learning how to bring new value to our customers
through Internet commerce and merchandising. Our goal remains to continue to solidify
and extend our brand and customer base. This requires sustained investment in systems
and infrastructure to support outstanding customer convenience, selection, and service
while we grow. We are planning to add music to our product offering, and over time we
believe that other products may be prudent investments. We also believe there are
significant opportunities to better serve our customers overseas, such as reducing delivery
times and better tailoring the customer experience. To be certain, a big part of the
challenge for us will lie not in finding new ways to expand our business, but in
prioritizing our investments.
We now know vastly more about online commerce than when Amazon.com was
founded, but we still have so much to learn. Though we are optimistic, we must remain
vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. The challenges and hurdles we will face to
make our long-term vision for Amazon.com a reality are several: aggressive, capable,
well-funded competition; considerable growth challenges and execution risk; the risks of
product and geographic expansion; and the need for large continuing investments to
meet an expanding market opportunity. However, as we've long said, online
bookselling, and online commerce in general, should prove to be a very large market,
and it's likely that a number of companies will see significant benefit. We feel good
about what we've done, and even more excited about what we want to do.
1997 was indeed an incredible year. We at Amazon.com are grateful to our
customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our
shareholders for their support and encouragement
To our shareowners:
In Amazon’s 1997 letter to shareholders, our first, I talked about our hope to create an “enduring franchise,”
one that would reinvent what it means to serve customers by unlocking the internet’s power. I noted that
Amazon had grown from having 158 employees to 614, and that we had surpassed 1.5 million customer
accounts. We had just gone public at a split-adjusted stock price of $1.50 per share. I wrote that it was Day 1.
We’ve come a long way since then, and we are working harder than ever to serve and delight customers.
Last year, we hired 500,000 employees and now directly employ 1.3 million people around the world. We have
more than 200 million Prime members worldwide. More than 1.9 million small and medium-sized businesses
sell in our store, and they make up close to 60% of our retail sales. Customers have connected more than
100 million smart home devices to Alexa. Amazon Web Services serves millions of customers and ended 2020
with a $50 billion annualized run rate. In 1997, we hadn’t invented Prime, Marketplace, Alexa, or AWS.
They weren’t even ideas then, and none was preordained. We took great risk with each one and put sweat
and ingenuity into each one.
Along the way, we’ve created $1.6 trillion of wealth for shareowners. Who are they? Your Chair is one, and
my Amazon shares have made me wealthy. But more than 7/8ths of the shares, representing $1.4 trillion of
wealth creation, are owned by others. Who are they? They’re pension funds, universities, and 401(k)s, and
they’re Mary and Larry, who sent me this note out of the blue just as I was sitting down to write this
shareholder letter:
I am approached with similar stories all the time. I know people who’ve used their Amazon money for
college, for emergencies, for houses, for vacations, to start their own business, for charity – and the list goes
on. I’m proud of the wealth we’ve created for shareowners. It’s significant, and it improves their lives. But I
also know something else: it’s not the largest part of the value we’ve created.
Create More Than You Consume
If you want to be successful in business (in life, actually), you have to create more than you consume. Your
goal should be to create value for everyone you interact with. Any business that doesn’t create value for those
it touches, even if it appears successful on the surface, isn’t long for this world. It’s on the way out.
Remember that stock prices are not about the past. They are a prediction of future cash flows discounted
back to the present. The stock market anticipates. I’m going to switch gears for a moment and talk about the
past. How much value did we create for shareowners in 2020? This is a relatively easy question to answer
because accounting systems are set up to answer it. Our net income in 2020 was $21.3 billion. If, instead of
being a publicly traded company with thousands of owners, Amazon were a sole proprietorship with a single
owner, that’s how much the owner would have earned in 2020.
How about employees? This is also a reasonably easy value creation question to answer because we can look
at compensation expense. What is an expense for a company is income for employees. In 2020, employees
earned $80 billion, plus another $11 billion to include benefits and various payroll taxes, for a total of
$91 billion.
How about third-party sellers? We have an internal team (the Selling Partner Services team) that works to
answer that question. They estimate that, in 2020, third-party seller profits from selling on Amazon were
between $25 billion and $39 billion, and to be conservative here I’ll go with $25 billion.
For customers, we have to break it down into consumer customers and AWS customers.
We’ll do consumers first. We offer low prices, vast selection, and fast delivery, but imagine we ignore all of
that for the purpose of this estimate and value only one thing: we save customers time.
Customers complete 28% of purchases on Amazon in three minutes or less, and half of all purchases are
finished in less than 15 minutes. Compare that to the typical shopping trip to a physical store – driving,
parking, searching store aisles, waiting in the checkout line, finding your car, and driving home. Research
suggests the typical physical store trip takes about an hour. If you assume that a typical Amazon purchase
takes 15 minutes and that it saves you a couple of trips to a physical store a week, that’s more than 75
hours a year saved. That’s important. We’re all busy in the early 21st century.
So that we can get a dollar figure, let’s value the time savings at $10 per hour, which is conservative. Seventyfive hours multiplied by $10 an hour and subtracting the cost of Prime gives you value creation for each
Prime member of about $630. We have 200 million Prime members, for a total in 2020 of $126 billion of value
creation.
AWS is challenging to estimate because each customer’s workload is so different, but we’ll do it anyway,
acknowledging up front that the error bars are high. Direct cost improvements from operating in the cloud
versus on premises vary, but a reasonable estimate is 30%. Across AWS’s entire 2020 revenue of $45 billion,
that 30% would imply customer value creation of $19 billion (what would have cost them $64 billion on
their own cost $45 billion from AWS). The difficult part of this estimation exercise is that the direct cost
reduction is the smallest portion of the customer benefit of moving to the cloud. The bigger benefit is the
increased speed of software development – something that can significantly improve the customer’s
competitiveness and top line. We have no reasonable way of estimating that portion of customer value
except to say that it’s almost certainly larger than the direct cost savings. To be conservative here (and
remembering we’re really only trying to get ballpark estimates), I’ll say it’s the same and call AWS customer
value creation $38 billion in 2020.
Adding AWS and consumer together gives us total customer value creation in 2020 of $164 billion.
Summarizing:
Shareholders $21B
Employees $91B
3P Sellers $25B
Customers $164B
Total $301B
If each group had an income statement representing their interactions with Amazon, the numbers above
would be the “bottom lines” from those income statements. These numbers are part of the reason why people
work for us, why sellers sell through us, and why customers buy from us. We create value for them. And
this value creation is not a zero-sum game. It is not just moving money from one pocket to another. Draw
the box big around all of society, and you’ll find that invention is the root of all real value creation. And value
created is best thought of as a metric for innovation.
Of course, our relationship with these constituencies and the value we create isn’t exclusively dollars and
cents. Money doesn’t tell the whole story. Our relationship with shareholders, for example, is relatively simple.
They invest and hold shares for a duration of their choosing. We provide direction to shareowners
infrequently on matters such as annual meetings and the right process to vote their shares. And even then
they can ignore those directions and just skip voting.
Our relationship with employees is a very different example. We have processes they follow and standards
they meet. We require training and various certifications. Employees have to show up at appointed times. Our
interactions with employees are many, and they’re fine-grained. It’s not just about the pay and the benefits.
It’s about all the other detailed aspects of the relationship too.
Does your Chair take comfort in the outcome of the recent union vote in Bessemer? No, he doesn’t. I think
we need to do a better job for our employees. While the voting results were lopsided and our direct
relationship with employees is strong, it’s clear to me that we need a better vision for how we create value for
employees – a vision for their success.
If you read some of the news reports, you might think we have no care for employees. In those reports, our
employees are sometimes accused of being desperate souls and treated as robots. That’s not accurate. They’re
sophisticated and thoughtful people who have options for where to work. When we survey fulfillment
center employees, 94% say they would recommend Amazon to a friend as a place to work.
Employees are able to take informal breaks throughout their shifts to stretch, get water, use the rest room,
or talk to a manager, all without impacting their performance. These informal work breaks are in addition to
the 30-minute lunch and 30-minute break built into their normal schedule.
We don’t set unreasonable performance goals. We set achievable performance goals that take into account
tenure and actual employee performance data. Performance is evaluated over a long period of time as we
know that a variety of things can impact performance in any given week, day, or hour. If employees are on
track to miss a performance target over a period of time, their manager talks with them and provides
coaching.
Coaching is also extended to employees who are excelling and in line for increased responsibilities. In fact,
82% of coaching is positive, provided to employees who are meeting or exceeding expectations. We terminate
the employment of less than 2.6% of employees due to their inability to perform their jobs (and that
number was even lower in 2020 because of operational impacts of COVID-19).
Earth’s Best Employer and Earth’s Safest Place to Work
The fact is, the large team of thousands of people who lead operations at Amazon have always cared deeply
for our hourly employees, and we’re proud of the work environment we’ve created. We’re also proud of the
fact that Amazon is a company that does more than just create jobs for computer scientists and people with
advanced degrees. We create jobs for people who never got that advantage.
Despite what we’ve accomplished, it’s clear to me that we need a better vision for our employees’ success.
We have always wanted to be Earth’s Most Customer-Centric Company. We won’t change that. It’s what got
us here. But I am committing us to an addition. We are going to be Earth’s Best Employer and Earth’s
Safest Place to Work.
In my upcoming role as Executive Chair, I’m going to focus on new initiatives. I’m an inventor. It’s what I
enjoy the most and what I do best. It’s where I create the most value. I’m excited to work alongside the large
team of passionate people we have in Ops and help invent in this arena of Earth’s Best Employer and
Earth’s Safest Place to Work. On the details, we at Amazon are always flexible, but on matters of vision we
are stubborn and relentless. We have never failed when we set our minds to something, and we’re not going to
fail at this either.
We dive deep into safety issues. For example, about 40% of work-related injuries at Amazon are related to
musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs), things like sprains or strains that can be caused by repetitive motions.
MSDs are common in the type of work that we do and are more likely to occur during an employee’s first
six months. We need to invent solutions to reduce MSDs for new employees, many of whom might be
working in a physical role for the first time.
One such program is WorkingWell – which we launched to 859,000 employees at 350 sites across North
America and Europe in 2020 – where we coach small groups of employees on body mechanics, proactive
wellness, and safety. In addition to reducing workplace injuries, these concepts have a positive impact on
regular day-to-day activities outside work.
We’re developing new automated staffing schedules that use sophisticated algorithms to rotate employees
among jobs that use different muscle-tendon groups to decrease repetitive motion and help protect employees
from MSD risks. This new technology is central to a job rotation program that we’re rolling out throughout
2021.
Our increased attention to early MSD prevention is already achieving results. From 2019 to 2020, overall
MSDs decreased by 32%, and MSDs resulting in time away from work decreased by more than half.
We employ 6,200 safety professionals at Amazon. They use the science of safety to solve complex problems
and establish new industry best practices. In 2021, we’ll invest more than $300 million into safety projects,
including an initial $66 million to create technology that will help prevent collisions of forklifts and other
types of industrial vehicles.
When we lead, others follow. Two and a half years ago, when we set a $15 minimum wage for our hourly
employees, we did so because we wanted to lead on wages – not just run with the pack – and because we
believed it was the right thing to do. A recent paper by economists at the University of California-Berkeley
and Brandeis University analyzed the impact of our decision to raise our minimum starting pay to $15 per
hour. Their assessment reflects what we’ve heard from employees, their families, and the communities they
live in.
Our increase in starting wage boosted local economies across the country by benefiting not only our own
employees but also other workers in the same community. The study showed that our pay raise resulted in a
4.7% increase in the average hourly wage among other employers in the same labor market.
And we’re not done leading. If we want to be Earth’s Best Employer, we shouldn’t settle for 94% of
employees saying they would recommend Amazon to a friend as a place to work. We have to aim for 100%.
And we’ll do that by continuing to lead on wages, on benefits, on upskilling opportunities, and in other
ways that we will figure out over time.
If any shareowners are concerned that Earth’s Best Employer and Earth’s Safest Place to Work might dilute
our focus on Earth’s Most Customer-Centric Company, let me set your mind at ease. Think of it this way.
If we can operate two businesses as different as consumer ecommerce and AWS, and do both at the highest
level, we can certainly do the same with these two vision statements. In fact, I’m confident they will
reinforce each other.
The Climate Pledge
In an earlier draft of this letter, I started this section with arguments and examples designed to demonstrate
that human-induced climate change is real. But, bluntly, I think we can stop saying that now. You don’t
have to say that photosynthesis is real, or make the case that gravity is real, or that water boils at 100 degrees
Celsius at sea level. These things are simply true, as is the reality of climate change.
Not long ago, most people believed that it would be good to address climate change, but they also thought
it would cost a lot and would threaten jobs, competitiveness, and economic growth. We now know better.
Smart action on climate change will not only stop bad things from happening, it will also make our
economy more efficient, help drive technological change, and reduce risks. Combined, these can lead to
more and better jobs, healthier and happier children, more productive workers, and a more prosperous future.
This doesn’t mean it will be easy. It won’t be. The coming decade will be decisive. The economy in 2030 will
need to be vastly different from what it is today, and Amazon plans to be at the heart of the change. We
launched The Climate Pledge together with Global Optimism in September 2019 because we wanted to
help drive this positive revolution. We need to be part of a growing team of corporations that understand
the imperatives and the opportunities of the 21st century.
Now, less than two years later, 53 companies representing almost every sector of the economy have signed
The Climate Pledge. Signatories such as Best Buy, IBM, Infosys, Mercedes-Benz, Microsoft, Siemens, and
Verizon have committed to achieve net-zero carbon in their worldwide businesses by 2040, 10 years ahead of
the Paris Agreement. The Pledge also requires them to measure and report greenhouse gas emissions on a
regular basis; implement decarbonization strategies through real business changes and innovations; and
neutralize any remaining emissions with additional, quantifiable, real, permanent, and socially beneficial
offsets. Credible, quality offsets are precious, and we should reserve them to compensate for economic
activities where low-carbon alternatives don’t exist.
The Climate Pledge signatories are making meaningful, tangible, and ambitious commitments. Uber has a
goal of operating as a zero-emission platform in Canada, Europe, and the U.S. by 2030, and Henkel plans to
source 100% of the electricity it uses for production from renewable sources. Amazon is making progress
toward our own goal of 100% renewable energy by 2025, five years ahead of our initial 2030 target. Amazon
is the largest corporate buyer of renewable energy in the world. We have 62 utility-scale wind and solar
projects and 125 solar rooftops on fulfillment and sort centers around the globe. These projects have the
capacity to generate over 6.9 gigawatts and deliver more than 20 million megawatt-hours of energy annually.
Transportation is a major component of Amazon’s business operations and the toughest part of our plan
to meet net-zero carbon by 2040. To help rapidly accelerate the market for electric vehicle technology, and to
help all companies transition to greener technologies, we invested more than $1 billion in Rivian – and
ordered 100,000 electric delivery vans from the company. We’ve also partnered with Mahindra in India and
Mercedes-Benz in Europe. These custom electric delivery vehicles from Rivian are already operational, and
they first hit the road in Los Angeles this past February. Ten thousand new vehicles will be on the road as
early as next year, and all 100,000 vehicles will be on the road by 2030 – saving millions of metric tons of
carbon. A big reason we want companies to join The Climate Pledge is to signal to the marketplace that
businesses should start inventing and developing new technologies that signatories need to make good on
the Pledge. Our purchase of 100,000 Rivian electric vans is a perfect example.
To further accelerate investment in new technologies needed to build a zero-carbon economy, we introduced
the Climate Pledge Fund last June. The investment program started with $2 billion to invest in visionary
companies that aim to facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy. Amazon has already announced
investments in CarbonCure Technologies, Pachama, Redwood Materials, Rivian, Turntide Technologies,
ZeroAvia, and Infinium – and these are just some of the innovative companies we hope will build the zerocarbon economy of the future.
I have also personally allocated $10 billion to provide grants to help catalyze the systemic change we will
need in the coming decade. We’ll be supporting leading scientists, activists, NGOs, environmental justice
organizations, and others working to fight climate change and protect the natural world. Late last year, I made
my first round of grants to 16 organizations working on innovative and needle-moving solutions. It’s going
to take collective action from big companies, small companies, nation states, global organizations, and
individuals, and I’m excited to be part of this journey and optimistic that humanity can come together to
solve this challenge.
Differentiation is Survival and the Universe Wants You to be Typical
This is my last annual shareholder letter as the CEO of Amazon, and I have one last thing of utmost
importance I feel compelled to teach. I hope all Amazonians take it to heart.
Here is a passage from Richard Dawkins’ (extraordinary) book The Blind Watchmaker. It’s about a basic
fact of biology.
“Staving off death is a thing that you have to work at. Left to itself – and that is what it is when it
dies – the body tends to revert to a state of equilibrium with its environment. If you measure some
quantity such as the temperature, the acidity, the water content or the electrical potential in a living
body, you will typically find that it is markedly different from the corresponding measure in the
surroundings. Our bodies, for instance, are usually hotter than our surroundings, and in cold climates
they have to work hard to maintain the differential. When we die the work stops, the temperature
differential starts to disappear, and we end up the same temperature as our surroundings. Not all
animals work so hard to avoid coming into equilibrium with their surrounding temperature, but all
animals do some comparable work. For instance, in a dry country, animals and plants work to
maintain the fluid content of their cells, work against a natural tendency for water to flow from them
into the dry outside world. If they fail they die. More generally, if living things didn’t work actively to
prevent it, they would eventually merge into their surroundings, and cease to exist as autonomous
beings. That is what happens when they die.”
While the passage is not intended as a metaphor, it’s nevertheless a fantastic one, and very relevant to
Amazon. I would argue that it’s relevant to all companies and all institutions and to each of our individual
lives too. In what ways does the world pull at you in an attempt to make you normal? How much work does it
take to maintain your distinctiveness? To keep alive the thing or things that make you special?
I know a happily married couple who have a running joke in their relationship. Not infrequently, the
husband looks at the wife with faux distress and says to her, “Can’t you just be normal?” They both smile
and laugh, and of course the deep truth is that her distinctiveness is something he loves about her. But, at the
same time, it’s also true that things would often be easier – take less energy – if we were a little more
normal.
This phenomenon happens at all scale levels. Democracies are not normal. Tyranny is the historical norm. If
we stopped doing all of the continuous hard work that is needed to maintain our distinctiveness in that
regard, we would quickly come into equilibrium with tyranny.
We all know that distinctiveness – originality – is valuable. We are all taught to “be yourself.” What I’m
really asking you to do is to embrace and be realistic about how much energy it takes to maintain that
distinctiveness. The world wants you to be typical – in a thousand ways, it pulls at you. Don’t let it happen.
You have to pay a price for your distinctiveness, and it’s worth it. The fairy tale version of “be yourself ” is that
all the pain stops as soon as you allow your distinctiveness to shine. That version is misleading. Being
yourself is worth it, but don’t expect it to be easy or free. You’ll have to put energy into it continuously.
The world will always try to make Amazon more typical – to bring us into equilibrium with our environment.
It will take continuous effort, but we can and must be better than that.
***
As always, I attach our 1997 shareholder letter. It concluded with this: “We at Amazon.com are grateful to
our customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our shareholders for their
support and encouragement.” That hasn’t changed a bit. I want to especially thank Andy Jassy for agreeing
to take on the CEO role. It’s a hard job with a lot of responsibility. Andy is brilliant and has the highest
of high standards. I guarantee you that Andy won’t let the universe make us typical. He will muster the
energy needed to keep alive in us what makes us special. That won’t be easy, but it is critical. I also predict it
will be satisfying and oftentimes fun. Thank you, Andy.
To all of you: be kind, be original, create more than you consume, and never, never, never let the universe
smooth you into your surroundings. It remains Day 1


To our shareholders, customers, and employees:
The last 3½ years have been exciting. We’ve served a cumulative 6.2 million
customers, exited 1998 with a $1 billion revenue run rate, launched music, video, and gift
stores in the U.S., opened shop in the U.K. and Germany, and, just recently, launched
Amazon.com Auctions.
We predict the next 3½ years will be even more exciting. We are working to
build a place where tens of millions of customers can come to find and discover anything
they might want to buy online. It is truly Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute our
business plan well, it remains Day 1 for Amazon.com. Given what’s happened, it may be
difficult to conceive, but we think the opportunities and risks ahead of us are even greater
than those behind us. We will have to make many conscious and deliberate choices,
some of which will be bold and unconventional. Hopefully, some will turn out to be
winners. Certainly, some will turn out to be mistakes.
A Recap of 1998
Heads-down focus on customers helped us make substantial progress in 1998:
• Sales grew from $148 million in 1997 to $610 million – a 313% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 1.5 million at the end of 1997 to 6.2
million at the end of 1998 – an increase of over 300%.
• Despite this strong new customer growth, the percentage of orders placed on the
Amazon.com Web site by repeat customers grew from over 58% in the fourth
quarter of 1997 to over 64% in the same period in 1998.
• Our first major product expansion, the Amazon.com music store, became the
leading online music retailer in its first full quarter.
• Following their October launch under the Amazon brand and with Amazon.com
technology, the combined fourth-quarter sales in the U.K. and German stores
nearly quadrupled over the third quarter, establishing Amazon.co.uk and
Amazon.de as the leading online booksellers in their markets.
• The addition of music was followed by the addition of video and gifts in
November, and we became the leading online video retailer in only 6 weeks.
• 25% of our fourth-quarter 1998 sales was derived from Amazon.co.uk,
Amazon.de, and music, video, and gift sales on Amazon.com, all very new
businesses.
• We significantly improved the customer experience, with innovations like 1-
ClickSM shopping, Gift Click, store-wide sales rank, and instant recommendations.
1998’s revenue and customer growth and achievement of continued growth in 1999
were and are dependent on expansion of our infrastructure. Some highlights:
• In 1998 our employee base grew from approximately 600 to over 2,100, and we
significantly strengthened our management team.
• We opened distribution and customer service centers in the U.K. and Germany,
and in early 1999, announced the lease of a highly-mechanized distribution center
of approximately 323,000 square feet in Fernley, Nevada. This latest addition
will more than double our total distribution capacity and allows us to even further
improve time-to-mailbox for customers.
• Inventories rose from $9 million at the beginning of the year to $30 million by
year end, enabling us to improve product availability for our customers and
improve product costs through direct purchasing from manufacturers.
• Our cash and investment balances, following our May 1998 high yield debt
offering and early 1999 convertible debt offering, now stand at well over $1.5
billion (on a pro forma basis), affording us substantial financial strength and
strategic flexibility.
We’re fortunate to benefit from a business model that is cash-favored and capital
efficient. As we do not need to build physical stores or stock those stores with inventory,
our centralized distribution model has allowed us to build our business to a billion-dollar
sales rate with just $30 million in inventory and $30 million in net plant and equipment.
In 1998, we generated $31 million in operating cash flow which more than offset net
fixed asset additions of $28 million.
Our Customers
We intend to build the world’s most customer-centric company. We hold as
axiomatic that customers are perceptive and smart, and that brand image follows reality
and not the other way around. Our customers tell us that they choose Amazon.com and
tell their friends about us because of the selection, ease-of-use, low prices, and service
that we deliver.
But there is no rest for the weary. I constantly remind our employees to be afraid,
to wake up every morning terrified. Not of our competition, but of our customers. Our
customers have made our business what it is, they are the ones with whom we have a
relationship, and they are the ones to whom we owe a great obligation. And we consider
them to be loyal to us – right up until the second that someone else offers them a better
service.
We must be committed to constant improvement, experimentation, and innovation
in every initiative. We love to be pioneers, it’s in the DNA of the company, and it’s a
good thing, too, because we’ll need that pioneering spirit to succeed. We’re proud of the
differentiation we’ve built through constant innovation and relentless focus on customer
experience, and we believe our initiatives in 1998 reflect it: our music, video, U.K. and
German stores, like our U.S. bookstore, are best of breed.
Work Hard, Have Fun, Make History
It would be impossible to produce results in an environment as dynamic as the
Internet without extraordinary people. Working to create a little bit of history isn’t
supposed to be easy, and, well, we’re finding that things are as they’re supposed to be!
We now have a team of 2,100 smart, hard-working, passionate folks who put customers
first. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring has been, and will continue to be, the
single most important element of Amazon.com’s success.
During our hiring meetings, we ask people to consider three questions before making
a decision:
• Will you admire this person? If you think about the people you’ve admired in
your life, they are probably people you’ve been able to learn from or take an
example from. For myself, I’ve always tried hard to work only with people I
admire, and I encourage folks here to be just as demanding. Life is definitely too
short to do otherwise.
• Will this person raise the average level of effectiveness of the group they’re
entering? We want to fight entropy. The bar has to continuously go up. I ask
people to visualize the company 5 years from now. At that point, each of us
should look around and say, “The standards are so high now -- boy, I’m glad I got
in when I did!”
• Along what dimension might this person be a superstar? Many people have
unique skills, interests, and perspectives that enrich the work environment for all
of us. It’s often something that’s not even related to their jobs. One person here
is a National Spelling Bee champion (1978, I believe). I suspect it doesn’t help
her in her everyday work, but it does make working here more fun if you can
occasionally snag her in the hall with a quick challenge: “onomatopoeia!”
Goals for 1999
As we look forward, we believe that the overall e-commerce opportunity is enormous,
and 1999 will be an important year. Although Amazon.com has established a strong
leadership position, it is certain that competition will even further accelerate. We plan to
invest aggressively to build the foundation for a multi-billion-dollar revenue company
serving tens of millions of customers with operational excellence and high efficiency.
Although this level of forward investment is costly and carries many inherent risks, we
believe it will provide the best end-to-end experience for customers, and actually offer
the least risky long-term value creation approach for investors.
The elements of our 1999 plan may not surprise you:
Distribution capacity − We intend to build out a significant distribution infrastructure
to ensure that we can support all the sales our customers demand, with speedy access to a
deep product inventory.
Systems capacity − We’ll be expanding our systems capacity to support similar
growth levels. The systems group has a significant task: expand to meet near term
growth, restructure systems for multi-billion dollar scale and tens of millions of
customers, build out features and systems for new initiatives and new innovations, and
increase operational excellence and efficiency. All while keeping a billion dollar, 8
million customer store up and available on a 24x7 basis.
Brand promise − Amazon.com is still a small and young company relative to the
major offline retailers, and we must ensure that we build wide, strong customer
relationships during this critical period.
Expanded product and service offerings − In 1999, we will continue to enhance the
scope of our current product and service offerings, as well as add new initiatives.
Amazon.com Auctions is our most recent addition. If any of you have not tried this new
service, I encourage you to run – not walk – to www.amazon.com and click on the
Auctions tab. As an Amazon.com customer, you are pre-registered to both bid and sell.
As a seller, you have access to Amazon.com’s 8 million experienced online shoppers.
Bench strength and processes − We’ve complicated our business dramatically with
new products, services, geographies, acquisitions and additions to our business model.
We intend to invest in teams, processes, communication and people development
practices. Scaling in this way is among the most challenging and difficult elements of
our plan.
Amazon.com has made a number of strides forward in the past year, but there is still
an enormous amount to learn and to do. We remain optimistic, but we also know we must
remain vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. We face many challenges and hurdles.
Among them, aggressive, capable and well-funded competition; the growth challenges
and execution risk associated with our own expansion; and the need for large continuing
investments to meet an expanding market opportunity.
The most important thing I could say in this letter was said in last years’ letter, which
detailed our long-term investment approach. Because we have so many new shareholders
(this year we’re printing more than 200,000 of these letters – last year we printed about
13,000), we’ve appended last year’s letter immediately after this year’s. I invite you to
please read the section entitled It’s All About the Long Term. You might want to read it
twice to make sure we’re the kind of company you want to be invested in. As it says
there, we don’t claim it’s the right philosophy, we just claim it’s ours!
All the best and sincere thanks once again to our customers and shareholders and all
the folks here who are working passionately every day to build an important and lasting
company.
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
 (Reprinted from the 1997 Annual Report)
To our shareholders:
Amazon.com passed many milestones in 1997: by year-end, we had served more
than 1.5 million customers, yielding 838% revenue growth to $147.8 million, and
extended our market leadership despite aggressive competitive entry.
But this is Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute well, for Amazon.com. Today,
online commerce saves customers money and precious time. Tomorrow, through
personalization, online commerce will accelerate the very process of discovery.
Amazon.com uses the Internet to create real value for its customers and, by doing so,
hopes to create an enduring franchise, even in established and large markets.
We have a window of opportunity as larger players marshal the resources to pursue
the online opportunity and as customers, new to purchasing online, are receptive to
forming new relationships. The competitive landscape has continued to evolve at a fast
pace. Many large players have moved online with credible offerings and have devoted
substantial energy and resources to building awareness, traffic, and sales. Our goal is to
move quickly to solidify and extend our current position while we begin to pursue the
online commerce opportunities in other areas. We see substantial opportunity in the large
markets we are targeting. This strategy is not without risk: it requires serious investment
and crisp execution against established franchise leaders.
It's All About the Long Term
We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the shareholder value
we create over the long term. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend
and solidify our current market leadership position. The stronger our market leadership,
the more powerful our economic model. Market leadership can translate directly to
higher revenue, higher profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger
returns on invested capital.
Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in
terms of the metrics most indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue
growth, the degree to which our customers continue to purchase from us on a repeat
basis, and the strength of our brand. We have invested and will continue to invest
aggressively to expand and leverage our customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we
move to establish an enduring franchise.
Because of our emphasis on the long term, we may make decisions and weigh
tradeoffs differently than some companies. Accordingly, we want to share with you our
fundamental management and decision-making approach so that you, our shareholders,
may confirm that it is consistent with your investment philosophy:
• We will continue to focus relentlessly on our customers.
• We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market
leadership considerations rather than short-term profitability considerations or
short-term Wall Street reactions.
• We will continue to measure our programs and the effectiveness of our
investments analytically, to jettison those that do not provide acceptable returns,
and to step up our investment in those that work best. We will continue to learn
from both our successes and our failures.
• We will make bold rather than timid investment decisions where we see a
sufficient probability of gaining market leadership advantages. Some of these
investments will pay off, others will not, and we will have learned another
valuable lesson in either case.
• When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP
accounting and maximizing the present value of future cash flows, we'll take the
cash flows.
• We will share our strategic thought processes with you when we make bold
choices (to the extent competitive pressures allow), so that you may evaluate for
yourselves whether we are making rational long-term leadership investments.
• We will work hard to spend wisely and maintain our lean culture. We understand
the importance of continually reinforcing a cost-conscious culture, particularly in
a business incurring net losses.
• We will balance our focus on growth with emphasis on long-term profitability and
capital management. At this stage, we choose to prioritize growth because we
believe that scale is central to achieving the potential of our business model.
• We will continue to focus on hiring and retaining versatile and talented
employees, and continue to weight their compensation to stock options rather than
cash. We know our success will be largely affected by our ability to attract and
retain a motivated employee base, each of whom must think like, and therefore
must actually be, an owner.
We aren't so bold as to claim that the above is the "right" investment philosophy, but
it's ours, and we would be remiss if we weren't clear in the approach we have taken and
will continue to take.
With this foundation, we would like to turn to a review of our business focus, our
progress in 1997, and our outlook for the future.
Obsess Over Customers
From the beginning, our focus has been on offering our customers compelling value.
We realized that the Web was, and still is, the World Wide Wait. Therefore, we set out to
offer customers something they simply could not get any other way, and began serving
them with books. We brought them much more selection than was possible in a physical
store (our store would now occupy 6 football fields), and presented it in a useful, easy-tosearch, and easy-to-browse format in a store open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. We
maintained a dogged focus on improving the shopping experience, and in 1997
substantially enhanced our store. We now offer customers gift certificates, 1-Click(SM)
shopping, and vastly more reviews, content, browsing options, and recommendation
features. We dramatically lowered prices, further increasing customer value. Word of
mouth remains the most powerful customer acquisition tool we have, and we are grateful
for the trust our customers have placed in us. Repeat purchases and word of mouth have
combined to make Amazon.com the market leader in online bookselling.
By many measures, Amazon.com came a long way in 1997:
• Sales grew from $15.7 million in 1996 to $147.8 million – an 838% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 180,000 to 1,510,000 – a 738%
increase.
• The percentage of orders from repeat customers grew from over 46% in the fourth
quarter of 1996 to over 58% in the same period in 1997.
• In terms of audience reach, per Media Metrix, our Web site went from a rank of
90th to within the top 20.
• We established long-term relationships with many important strategic partners,
including America Online, Yahoo!, Excite, Netscape, GeoCities, AltaVista,
@Home, and Prodigy.
Infrastructure
During 1997, we worked hard to expand our business infrastructure to support these
greatly increased traffic, sales, and service levels:
• Amazon.com's employee base grew from 158 to 614, and we significantly
strengthened our management team.
• Distribution center capacity grew from 50,000 to 285,000 square feet, including a
70% expansion of our Seattle facilities and the launch of our second distribution
center in Delaware in November.
• Inventories rose to over 200,000 titles at year-end, enabling us to improve
availability for our customers.
• Our cash and investment balances at year-end were $125 million, thanks to our
initial public offering in May 1997 and our $75 million loan, affording us
substantial strategic flexibility.
Our Employees
The past year's success is the product of a talented, smart, hard-working group, and I
take great pride in being a part of this team. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring
has been, and will continue to be, the single most important element of Amazon.com's
success.
It's not easy to work here (when I interview people I tell them, “You can work long,
hard, or smart, but at Amazon.com you can't choose two out of three"), but we are
working to build something important, something that matters to our customers,
something that we can all tell our grandchildren about. Such things aren't meant to be
easy. We are incredibly fortunate to have this group of dedicated employees whose
sacrifices and passion build Amazon.com.
Goals for 1998
We are still in the early stages of learning how to bring new value to our customers
through Internet commerce and merchandising. Our goal remains to continue to solidify
and extend our brand and customer base. This requires sustained investment in systems
and infrastructure to support outstanding customer convenience, selection, and service
while we grow. We are planning to add music to our product offering, and over time we
believe that other products may be prudent investments. We also believe there are
significant opportunities to better serve our customers overseas, such as reducing delivery
times and better tailoring the customer experience. To be certain, a big part of the
challenge for us will lie not in finding new ways to expand our business, but in
prioritizing our investments.
We now know vastly more about online commerce than when Amazon.com was
founded, but we still have so much to learn. Though we are optimistic, we must remain
vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. The challenges and hurdles we will face to
make our long-term vision for Amazon.com a reality are several: aggressive, capable,
well-funded competition; considerable growth challenges and execution risk; the risks of
product and geographic expansion; and the need for large continuing investments to
meet an expanding market opportunity. However, as we've long said, online
bookselling, and online commerce in general, should prove to be a very large market,
and it's likely that a number of companies will see significant benefit. We feel good
about what we've done, and even more excited about what we want to do.
1997 was indeed an incredible year. We at Amazon.com are grateful to our
customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our
shareholders for their support and encouragement.


To our shareholders:
The first 4½ years of our journey have yielded some amazing results: we’ve now served
over 17 million customers in over 150 countries and built the leading global e-commerce
brand and platform.
In the coming years we expect to benefit from the continued adoption of online
commerce around the world as millions of new consumers connect to the Internet for the
first time. As the online shopping experience continues to improve, consumer trust and
confidence will increase, driving further adoption. And, if we at Amazon.com do our job
right, we can be uniquely positioned to serve these new customers best and benefit as a
result.
A Recap of 1999
During 1999, our relentless focus on customers worked:
• Sales grew from $610 million in 1998 to $1.64 billion – a 169 percent increase.
• We added 10.7 million new customers, increasing cumulative customer accounts
from 6.2 million to 16.9 million.
• The percentage of orders placed by repeat customers grew from over 64 percent
in the fourth quarter of 1998 to greater than 73 percent in the same period in 1999.
• Customers around the world are now choosing Amazon.com for a wide array of
products. Only two years ago, Amazon.com's U.S. Books business represented
100 percent of our sales. Today, despite strong growth in U.S. Books, other areas
account for more than half our sales. Major 1999 initiatives included Auctions,
zShops, Toys, Consumer Electronics, Home Improvement, Software, Video
Games, Payments and our wireless initiative, Amazon Anywhere.
• We've continued to be recognized as best-of-breed not only in our more
established areas such as books, but in our newer stores as well. Just to focus on
one area, Amazon Toys has received multiple awards, including being rated the
best online toy store in an MSNBC survey, a ranking as the No. 1 on-line toy
store by Forrester Research, and the top e-Rating from Consumer Reports in the
toys category, in each case beating out a number of longer-established players.
• Sales outside of the US accounted for 22 percent of our business, totaling $358
million. In the U.K. and Germany, we added Music, Auctions and zShops. In
fact, Amazon.co.uk, Amazon.de, and Amazon.com are now the #1, #2, and #3
most popular online retail domains in Europe.
• We grew worldwide distribution capacity from roughly 300,000 square feet to
over 5 million square feet in less than 12 months.
• In part because of this infrastructure, we were able to grow revenues 90 percent in
just three months, while shipping well over 99 percent of our holiday orders in
time for the holidays. As far as we can determine, no other company has ever
grown 90 percent in three months on a sales base of over $1 billion.
I’m incredibly proud of everyone at Amazon.com for their tireless efforts to deliver what
has become the standard-setting, Amazon.com-class customer experience while
simultaneously handling such extraordinary growth rates. If any of you shareholders
would like to thank this incredible worldwide team of Amazonians, please feel free to
send an email to jeff@amazon.com. With help from my astounding office staff, I’ll
compile them and send them to the company. I know it would be appreciated. (As a side
benefit I’ll get to see if anyone reads these letters!)
In 1999, we continued to benefit from a business model that is inherently capital efficient.
We don’t need to build physical stores or stock those stores with inventory, and our
centralized distribution model has allowed us to build a business with over $2 billion in
annualized sales but requiring just $220 million in inventory and $318 million in fixed
assets. Over the last five years, we’ve cumulatively used just $62 million in operating
cash.
What Do You Own?
At a recent event at the Stanford University campus, a young woman came to the
microphone and asked me a great question: “I have 100 shares of Amazon.com. What do
I own?”
I was surprised I hadn’t heard it before, at least not so simply put. What do you own?
You own a piece of the leading e-commerce platform.
The Amazon.com platform is comprised of brand, customers, technology, distribution
capability, deep e-commerce expertise, and a great team with a passion for innovation
and a passion for serving customers well. We begin the year 2000 with 17 million
customers, a world-wide reputation for customer focus, the best e-commerce software
systems, and purpose-built distribution and customer service infrastructure. We believe
we have reached a “tipping point,” where this platform allows us to launch new ecommerce businesses faster, with a higher quality of customer experience, a lower
incremental cost, a higher chance of success, and a faster path to scale and profitability
than any other company.
Our vision is to use this platform to build Earth’s most customer-centric company, a
place where customers can come to find and discover anything and everything they might
want to buy online. We won’t do so alone, but together with what will be thousands of
partners of all sizes. We’ll listen to customers, invent on their behalf, and personalize the
store for each of them, all while working hard to continue to earn their trust. As is
probably clear, this platform affords an unusually large scale opportunity, one that should
prove very valuable for both customers and shareholders if we can make the most of it.
Despite the many risks and complexities, we are deeply committed to doing so.
Goals for 2000
In the year 2000, Amazon.com has six major goals: growth in both the number of our
customers and the strength of the relationship we have with each of them; continued rapid
expansion of the products and services we offer; driving operational excellence in all
areas of the company; international expansion; expanding our partnership programs; and
last, importantly, driving toward profitability in each and every business we are in. I’ll
spend a moment on each goal.
Growing and strengthening customer relationships  We will continue to invest
heavily in introductions to new customers. Though it’s sometimes hard to imagine with
all that has happened in the last five years, this remains Day 1 for e-commerce, and these
are the early days of category formation where many customers are forming relationships
for the first time. We must work hard to grow the number of customers who shop with
us, the number of products they purchase, the frequency with which they shop, and the
level of satisfaction they have when they do so.
Product and service expansion  We are working to build a place where customers can
find and discover anything they want to buy, anytime, anywhere. Each new product and
service we offer makes us more relevant to a wider group of customers and can increase
the frequency with which they visit our store. So, as we expand our offering, we create a
virtuous cycle for the whole business. The more frequently customers visit our store, the
less time, energy, and marketing investment is required to get them to come back again.
In sight, in mind.
Further, as we expand, each new store has a dedicated team working to make it best-ofbreed in its category; thus each new store is also a new opportunity to demonstrate to
customers our focus on them. Finally, each new product or service further leverages our
investments in distribution, customer service, technology, and brand, and can yield
increased leverage on our bottom line.
Operational excellence  To us, operational excellence implies two things: delivering
continuous improvement in customer experience and driving productivity, margin,
efficiency, and asset velocity across all our businesses.
Often, the best way to drive one of these is to deliver the other. For instance, more
efficient distribution yields faster delivery times, which in turn lowers contacts per order
and customer service costs. These, in turn, improve customer experience and build
brand, which in turn decreases customer acquisition and retention costs.
Our whole company is highly focused on driving operational excellence in each area of
our business in 2000. Being world class in both customer experience and operations will
allow us to grow faster and deliver even higher service levels.
International expansion  We think that consumers outside the U.S. are even more
under-served by retail than those within it, and, with our platform in place, Amazon.com
is well positioned to be a leading global retailer. We already have significant brand, sales
and customer presence around the world, as we’ve been shipping into over 150 countries
for almost five years. I’m pleased to report that our stores in the UK and Germany are off
to a strong start − they are already in the top 10 Web properties and the # 1 e-commerce
site in each of their respective countries. Our customers and shareholders around the
world can look forward to further geographic expansion from this base during the coming
year.
Expanding our partnership program  Through our platform, we are able to bring
tremendous value to our partners, such as drugstore.com. In fact, our experience so far
suggests that Amazon.com may easily be the most efficient, effective means for our
partners to build their businesses. In many areas, partnering is the best way for us to
rapidly expand our store in a customer-focused, cost-effective manner. One point worth
emphasizing: the quality of customer experience a partner delivers is the single most
important criteria in our selection process − we simply won’t build a partnership with any
company that does not share our passion for serving customers.
We love these kinds of partnerships because they please customers, please our partners,
and are financially attractive, pleasing our shareholders − you and us.
Drive toward profitability in each business we are in  Each of the previous goals
I’ve outlined contribute to our long-standing objective of building the best, most
profitable, highest return on capital, long-term franchise. So in a way, driving
profitability is the foundation underlying all of these goals. In the coming year, we
expect to deliver substantial margin improvement and cost leverage as we drive
continuous improvement in our partnerships with suppliers, in our own productivity and
efficiency, in our management of fixed and working capital, and our expertise in
managing product mix and price.
Each successive product and service we launch this year should build on our platform, so
our investment curve can be less steep and the time to profitability for each business
should, in general, continue to shorten.
It’s All About the Long Term
In our 1997 letter to shareholders (our first), we detailed our long-term investment
approach. Because we continue to add many new shareholders, we’ve appended that
letter immediately after this year’s. I invite you to please read the section entitled It’s All
About the Long Term, as it is the best way I know to help make sure we’re the kind of
company you want to be invested in. As we wrote there, we don’t claim it’s the right
philosophy, we just claim it’s ours!
In closing, consider this most important point: the current online shopping experience is
the worst it will ever be. It’s good enough today to attract 17 million customers, but it
will get so much better. Increased bandwidth will result in faster page views and richer
content. Further improvements will lead to “always-on access” (which I expect will be a
strong boost to online shopping at home, as opposed to the office) and we’ll see
significant growth in non-PC devices and wireless access. Moreover, it’s great to be
participating in what is a multi-trillion dollar global market, in which we are so very, very
tiny. We are doubly-blessed. We have a market-size unconstrained opportunity in an
area where the underlying foundational technology we employ improves every day. That
is not normal.
As always, we at Amazon.com remain grateful to our customers for their business and
trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our shareholders for their support and
encouragement. Many, many thanks.
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
 (Reprinted from the 1997 Annual Report)
To our shareholders:
Amazon.com passed many milestones in 1997: by year-end, we had served more
than 1.5 million customers, yielding 838% revenue growth to $147.8 million, and
extended our market leadership despite aggressive competitive entry.
But this is Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute well, for Amazon.com. Today,
online commerce saves customers money and precious time. Tomorrow, through
personalization, online commerce will accelerate the very process of discovery.
Amazon.com uses the Internet to create real value for its customers and, by doing so,
hopes to create an enduring franchise, even in established and large markets.
We have a window of opportunity as larger players marshal the resources to pursue
the online opportunity and as customers, new to purchasing online, are receptive to
forming new relationships. The competitive landscape has continued to evolve at a fast
pace. Many large players have moved online with credible offerings and have devoted
substantial energy and resources to building awareness, traffic, and sales. Our goal is to
move quickly to solidify and extend our current position while we begin to pursue the
online commerce opportunities in other areas. We see substantial opportunity in the large
markets we are targeting. This strategy is not without risk: it requires serious investment
and crisp execution against established franchise leaders.
It's All About the Long Term
We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the shareholder value
we create over the long term. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend
and solidify our current market leadership position. The stronger our market leadership,
the more powerful our economic model. Market leadership can translate directly to
higher revenue, higher profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger
returns on invested capital.
Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in
terms of the metrics most indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue
growth, the degree to which our customers continue to purchase from us on a repeat
basis, and the strength of our brand. We have invested and will continue to invest
aggressively to expand and leverage our customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we
move to establish an enduring franchise.
Because of our emphasis on the long term, we may make decisions and weigh
tradeoffs differently than some companies. Accordingly, we want to share with you our
fundamental management and decision-making approach so that you, our shareholders,
may confirm that it is consistent with your investment philosophy:
• We will continue to focus relentlessly on our customers.
• We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market
leadership considerations rather than short-term profitability considerations or
short-term Wall Street reactions.
• We will continue to measure our programs and the effectiveness of our
investments analytically, to jettison those that do not provide acceptable returns,
and to step up our investment in those that work best. We will continue to learn
from both our successes and our failures.
• We will make bold rather than timid investment decisions where we see a
sufficient probability of gaining market leadership advantages. Some of these
investments will pay off, others will not, and we will have learned another
valuable lesson in either case.
• When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP
accounting and maximizing the present value of future cash flows, we'll take the
cash flows.
• We will share our strategic thought processes with you when we make bold
choices (to the extent competitive pressures allow), so that you may evaluate for
yourselves whether we are making rational long-term leadership investments.
• We will work hard to spend wisely and maintain our lean culture. We understand
the importance of continually reinforcing a cost-conscious culture, particularly in
a business incurring net losses.
• We will balance our focus on growth with emphasis on long-term profitability and
capital management. At this stage, we choose to prioritize growth because we
believe that scale is central to achieving the potential of our business model.
• We will continue to focus on hiring and retaining versatile and talented
employees, and continue to weight their compensation to stock options rather than
cash. We know our success will be largely affected by our ability to attract and
retain a motivated employee base, each of whom must think like, and therefore
must actually be, an owner.
We aren't so bold as to claim that the above is the "right" investment philosophy, but
it's ours, and we would be remiss if we weren't clear in the approach we have taken and
will continue to take.
With this foundation, we would like to turn to a review of our business focus, our
progress in 1997, and our outlook for the future.
Obsess Over Customers
From the beginning, our focus has been on offering our customers compelling value.
We realized that the Web was, and still is, the World Wide Wait. Therefore, we set out to
offer customers something they simply could not get any other way, and began serving
them with books. We brought them much more selection than was possible in a physical
store (our store would now occupy 6 football fields), and presented it in a useful, easy-tosearch, and easy-to-browse format in a store open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. We
maintained a dogged focus on improving the shopping experience, and in 1997
substantially enhanced our store. We now offer customers gift certificates, 1-Click(SM)
shopping, and vastly more reviews, content, browsing options, and recommendation
features. We dramatically lowered prices, further increasing customer value. Word of
mouth remains the most powerful customer acquisition tool we have, and we are grateful
for the trust our customers have placed in us. Repeat purchases and word of mouth have
combined to make Amazon.com the market leader in online bookselling.
By many measures, Amazon.com came a long way in 1997:
• Sales grew from $15.7 million in 1996 to $147.8 million – an 838% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 180,000 to 1,510,000 – a 738%
increase.
• The percentage of orders from repeat customers grew from over 46% in the fourth
quarter of 1996 to over 58% in the same period in 1997.
• In terms of audience reach, per Media Metrix, our Web site went from a rank of
90th to within the top 20.
• We established long-term relationships with many important strategic partners,
including America Online, Yahoo!, Excite, Netscape, GeoCities, AltaVista,
@Home, and Prodigy.
Infrastructure
During 1997, we worked hard to expand our business infrastructure to support these
greatly increased traffic, sales, and service levels:
• Amazon.com's employee base grew from 158 to 614, and we significantly
strengthened our management team.
• Distribution center capacity grew from 50,000 to 285,000 square feet, including a
70% expansion of our Seattle facilities and the launch of our second distribution
center in Delaware in November.
• Inventories rose to over 200,000 titles at year-end, enabling us to improve
availability for our customers.
• Our cash and investment balances at year-end were $125 million, thanks to our
initial public offering in May 1997 and our $75 million loan, affording us
substantial strategic flexibility.
Our Employees
The past year's success is the product of a talented, smart, hard-working group, and I
take great pride in being a part of this team. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring
has been, and will continue to be, the single most important element of Amazon.com's
success.
It's not easy to work here (when I interview people I tell them, “You can work long,
hard, or smart, but at Amazon.com you can't choose two out of three"), but we are
working to build something important, something that matters to our customers,
something that we can all tell our grandchildren about. Such things aren't meant to be
easy. We are incredibly fortunate to have this group of dedicated employees whose
sacrifices and passion build Amazon.com.
Goals for 1998
We are still in the early stages of learning how to bring new value to our customers
through Internet commerce and merchandising. Our goal remains to continue to solidify
and extend our brand and customer base. This requires sustained investment in systems
and infrastructure to support outstanding customer convenience, selection, and service
while we grow. We are planning to add music to our product offering, and over time we
believe that other products may be prudent investments. We also believe there are
significant opportunities to better serve our customers overseas, such as reducing delivery
times and better tailoring the customer experience. To be certain, a big part of the
challenge for us will lie not in finding new ways to expand our business, but in
prioritizing our investments.
We now know vastly more about online commerce than when Amazon.com was
founded, but we still have so much to learn. Though we are optimistic, we must remain
vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. The challenges and hurdles we will face to
make our long-term vision for Amazon.com a reality are several: aggressive, capable,
well-funded competition; considerable growth challenges and execution risk; the risks of
product and geographic expansion; and the need for large continuing investments to
meet an expanding market opportunity. However, as we've long said, online
bookselling, and online commerce in general, should prove to be a very large market,
and it's likely that a number of companies will see significant benefit. We feel good
about what we've done, and even more excited about what we want to do.
1997 was indeed an incredible year. We at Amazon.com are grateful to our
customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our
shareholders for their support and encouragement
To our shareowners:
In Amazon’s 1997 letter to shareholders, our first, I talked about our hope to create an “enduring franchise,”
one that would reinvent what it means to serve customers by unlocking the internet’s power. I noted that
Amazon had grown from having 158 employees to 614, and that we had surpassed 1.5 million customer
accounts. We had just gone public at a split-adjusted stock price of $1.50 per share. I wrote that it was Day 1.
We’ve come a long way since then, and we are working harder than ever to serve and delight customers.
Last year, we hired 500,000 employees and now directly employ 1.3 million people around the world. We have
more than 200 million Prime members worldwide. More than 1.9 million small and medium-sized businesses
sell in our store, and they make up close to 60% of our retail sales. Customers have connected more than
100 million smart home devices to Alexa. Amazon Web Services serves millions of customers and ended 2020
with a $50 billion annualized run rate. In 1997, we hadn’t invented Prime, Marketplace, Alexa, or AWS.
They weren’t even ideas then, and none was preordained. We took great risk with each one and put sweat
and ingenuity into each one.
Along the way, we’ve created $1.6 trillion of wealth for shareowners. Who are they? Your Chair is one, and
my Amazon shares have made me wealthy. But more than 7/8ths of the shares, representing $1.4 trillion of
wealth creation, are owned by others. Who are they? They’re pension funds, universities, and 401(k)s, and
they’re Mary and Larry, who sent me this note out of the blue just as I was sitting down to write this
shareholder letter:
I am approached with similar stories all the time. I know people who’ve used their Amazon money for
college, for emergencies, for houses, for vacations, to start their own business, for charity – and the list goes
on. I’m proud of the wealth we’ve created for shareowners. It’s significant, and it improves their lives. But I
also know something else: it’s not the largest part of the value we’ve created.
Create More Than You Consume
If you want to be successful in business (in life, actually), you have to create more than you consume. Your
goal should be to create value for everyone you interact with. Any business that doesn’t create value for those
it touches, even if it appears successful on the surface, isn’t long for this world. It’s on the way out.
Remember that stock prices are not about the past. They are a prediction of future cash flows discounted
back to the present. The stock market anticipates. I’m going to switch gears for a moment and talk about the
past. How much value did we create for shareowners in 2020? This is a relatively easy question to answer
because accounting systems are set up to answer it. Our net income in 2020 was $21.3 billion. If, instead of
being a publicly traded company with thousands of owners, Amazon were a sole proprietorship with a single
owner, that’s how much the owner would have earned in 2020.
How about employees? This is also a reasonably easy value creation question to answer because we can look
at compensation expense. What is an expense for a company is income for employees. In 2020, employees
earned $80 billion, plus another $11 billion to include benefits and various payroll taxes, for a total of
$91 billion.
How about third-party sellers? We have an internal team (the Selling Partner Services team) that works to
answer that question. They estimate that, in 2020, third-party seller profits from selling on Amazon were
between $25 billion and $39 billion, and to be conservative here I’ll go with $25 billion.
For customers, we have to break it down into consumer customers and AWS customers.
We’ll do consumers first. We offer low prices, vast selection, and fast delivery, but imagine we ignore all of
that for the purpose of this estimate and value only one thing: we save customers time.
Customers complete 28% of purchases on Amazon in three minutes or less, and half of all purchases are
finished in less than 15 minutes. Compare that to the typical shopping trip to a physical store – driving,
parking, searching store aisles, waiting in the checkout line, finding your car, and driving home. Research
suggests the typical physical store trip takes about an hour. If you assume that a typical Amazon purchase
takes 15 minutes and that it saves you a couple of trips to a physical store a week, that’s more than 75
hours a year saved. That’s important. We’re all busy in the early 21st century.
So that we can get a dollar figure, let’s value the time savings at $10 per hour, which is conservative. Seventyfive hours multiplied by $10 an hour and subtracting the cost of Prime gives you value creation for each
Prime member of about $630. We have 200 million Prime members, for a total in 2020 of $126 billion of value
creation.
AWS is challenging to estimate because each customer’s workload is so different, but we’ll do it anyway,
acknowledging up front that the error bars are high. Direct cost improvements from operating in the cloud
versus on premises vary, but a reasonable estimate is 30%. Across AWS’s entire 2020 revenue of $45 billion,
that 30% would imply customer value creation of $19 billion (what would have cost them $64 billion on
their own cost $45 billion from AWS). The difficult part of this estimation exercise is that the direct cost
reduction is the smallest portion of the customer benefit of moving to the cloud. The bigger benefit is the
increased speed of software development – something that can significantly improve the customer’s
competitiveness and top line. We have no reasonable way of estimating that portion of customer value
except to say that it’s almost certainly larger than the direct cost savings. To be conservative here (and
remembering we’re really only trying to get ballpark estimates), I’ll say it’s the same and call AWS customer
value creation $38 billion in 2020.
Adding AWS and consumer together gives us total customer value creation in 2020 of $164 billion.
Summarizing:
Shareholders $21B
Employees $91B
3P Sellers $25B
Customers $164B
Total $301B
If each group had an income statement representing their interactions with Amazon, the numbers above
would be the “bottom lines” from those income statements. These numbers are part of the reason why people
work for us, why sellers sell through us, and why customers buy from us. We create value for them. And
this value creation is not a zero-sum game. It is not just moving money from one pocket to another. Draw
the box big around all of society, and you’ll find that invention is the root of all real value creation. And value
created is best thought of as a metric for innovation.
Of course, our relationship with these constituencies and the value we create isn’t exclusively dollars and
cents. Money doesn’t tell the whole story. Our relationship with shareholders, for example, is relatively simple.
They invest and hold shares for a duration of their choosing. We provide direction to shareowners
infrequently on matters such as annual meetings and the right process to vote their shares. And even then
they can ignore those directions and just skip voting.
Our relationship with employees is a very different example. We have processes they follow and standards
they meet. We require training and various certifications. Employees have to show up at appointed times. Our
interactions with employees are many, and they’re fine-grained. It’s not just about the pay and the benefits.
It’s about all the other detailed aspects of the relationship too.
Does your Chair take comfort in the outcome of the recent union vote in Bessemer? No, he doesn’t. I think
we need to do a better job for our employees. While the voting results were lopsided and our direct
relationship with employees is strong, it’s clear to me that we need a better vision for how we create value for
employees – a vision for their success.
If you read some of the news reports, you might think we have no care for employees. In those reports, our
employees are sometimes accused of being desperate souls and treated as robots. That’s not accurate. They’re
sophisticated and thoughtful people who have options for where to work. When we survey fulfillment
center employees, 94% say they would recommend Amazon to a friend as a place to work.
Employees are able to take informal breaks throughout their shifts to stretch, get water, use the rest room,
or talk to a manager, all without impacting their performance. These informal work breaks are in addition to
the 30-minute lunch and 30-minute break built into their normal schedule.
We don’t set unreasonable performance goals. We set achievable performance goals that take into account
tenure and actual employee performance data. Performance is evaluated over a long period of time as we
know that a variety of things can impact performance in any given week, day, or hour. If employees are on
track to miss a performance target over a period of time, their manager talks with them and provides
coaching.
Coaching is also extended to employees who are excelling and in line for increased responsibilities. In fact,
82% of coaching is positive, provided to employees who are meeting or exceeding expectations. We terminate
the employment of less than 2.6% of employees due to their inability to perform their jobs (and that
number was even lower in 2020 because of operational impacts of COVID-19).
Earth’s Best Employer and Earth’s Safest Place to Work
The fact is, the large team of thousands of people who lead operations at Amazon have always cared deeply
for our hourly employees, and we’re proud of the work environment we’ve created. We’re also proud of the
fact that Amazon is a company that does more than just create jobs for computer scientists and people with
advanced degrees. We create jobs for people who never got that advantage.
Despite what we’ve accomplished, it’s clear to me that we need a better vision for our employees’ success.
We have always wanted to be Earth’s Most Customer-Centric Company. We won’t change that. It’s what got
us here. But I am committing us to an addition. We are going to be Earth’s Best Employer and Earth’s
Safest Place to Work.
In my upcoming role as Executive Chair, I’m going to focus on new initiatives. I’m an inventor. It’s what I
enjoy the most and what I do best. It’s where I create the most value. I’m excited to work alongside the large
team of passionate people we have in Ops and help invent in this arena of Earth’s Best Employer and
Earth’s Safest Place to Work. On the details, we at Amazon are always flexible, but on matters of vision we
are stubborn and relentless. We have never failed when we set our minds to something, and we’re not going to
fail at this either.
We dive deep into safety issues. For example, about 40% of work-related injuries at Amazon are related to
musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs), things like sprains or strains that can be caused by repetitive motions.
MSDs are common in the type of work that we do and are more likely to occur during an employee’s first
six months. We need to invent solutions to reduce MSDs for new employees, many of whom might be
working in a physical role for the first time.
One such program is WorkingWell – which we launched to 859,000 employees at 350 sites across North
America and Europe in 2020 – where we coach small groups of employees on body mechanics, proactive
wellness, and safety. In addition to reducing workplace injuries, these concepts have a positive impact on
regular day-to-day activities outside work.
We’re developing new automated staffing schedules that use sophisticated algorithms to rotate employees
among jobs that use different muscle-tendon groups to decrease repetitive motion and help protect employees
from MSD risks. This new technology is central to a job rotation program that we’re rolling out throughout
2021.
Our increased attention to early MSD prevention is already achieving results. From 2019 to 2020, overall
MSDs decreased by 32%, and MSDs resulting in time away from work decreased by more than half.
We employ 6,200 safety professionals at Amazon. They use the science of safety to solve complex problems
and establish new industry best practices. In 2021, we’ll invest more than $300 million into safety projects,
including an initial $66 million to create technology that will help prevent collisions of forklifts and other
types of industrial vehicles.
When we lead, others follow. Two and a half years ago, when we set a $15 minimum wage for our hourly
employees, we did so because we wanted to lead on wages – not just run with the pack – and because we
believed it was the right thing to do. A recent paper by economists at the University of California-Berkeley
and Brandeis University analyzed the impact of our decision to raise our minimum starting pay to $15 per
hour. Their assessment reflects what we’ve heard from employees, their families, and the communities they
live in.
Our increase in starting wage boosted local economies across the country by benefiting not only our own
employees but also other workers in the same community. The study showed that our pay raise resulted in a
4.7% increase in the average hourly wage among other employers in the same labor market.
And we’re not done leading. If we want to be Earth’s Best Employer, we shouldn’t settle for 94% of
employees saying they would recommend Amazon to a friend as a place to work. We have to aim for 100%.
And we’ll do that by continuing to lead on wages, on benefits, on upskilling opportunities, and in other
ways that we will figure out over time.
If any shareowners are concerned that Earth’s Best Employer and Earth’s Safest Place to Work might dilute
our focus on Earth’s Most Customer-Centric Company, let me set your mind at ease. Think of it this way.
If we can operate two businesses as different as consumer ecommerce and AWS, and do both at the highest
level, we can certainly do the same with these two vision statements. In fact, I’m confident they will
reinforce each other.
The Climate Pledge
In an earlier draft of this letter, I started this section with arguments and examples designed to demonstrate
that human-induced climate change is real. But, bluntly, I think we can stop saying that now. You don’t
have to say that photosynthesis is real, or make the case that gravity is real, or that water boils at 100 degrees
Celsius at sea level. These things are simply true, as is the reality of climate change.
Not long ago, most people believed that it would be good to address climate change, but they also thought
it would cost a lot and would threaten jobs, competitiveness, and economic growth. We now know better.
Smart action on climate change will not only stop bad things from happening, it will also make our
economy more efficient, help drive technological change, and reduce risks. Combined, these can lead to
more and better jobs, healthier and happier children, more productive workers, and a more prosperous future.
This doesn’t mean it will be easy. It won’t be. The coming decade will be decisive. The economy in 2030 will
need to be vastly different from what it is today, and Amazon plans to be at the heart of the change. We
launched The Climate Pledge together with Global Optimism in September 2019 because we wanted to
help drive this positive revolution. We need to be part of a growing team of corporations that understand
the imperatives and the opportunities of the 21st century.
Now, less than two years later, 53 companies representing almost every sector of the economy have signed
The Climate Pledge. Signatories such as Best Buy, IBM, Infosys, Mercedes-Benz, Microsoft, Siemens, and
Verizon have committed to achieve net-zero carbon in their worldwide businesses by 2040, 10 years ahead of
the Paris Agreement. The Pledge also requires them to measure and report greenhouse gas emissions on a
regular basis; implement decarbonization strategies through real business changes and innovations; and
neutralize any remaining emissions with additional, quantifiable, real, permanent, and socially beneficial
offsets. Credible, quality offsets are precious, and we should reserve them to compensate for economic
activities where low-carbon alternatives don’t exist.
The Climate Pledge signatories are making meaningful, tangible, and ambitious commitments. Uber has a
goal of operating as a zero-emission platform in Canada, Europe, and the U.S. by 2030, and Henkel plans to
source 100% of the electricity it uses for production from renewable sources. Amazon is making progress
toward our own goal of 100% renewable energy by 2025, five years ahead of our initial 2030 target. Amazon
is the largest corporate buyer of renewable energy in the world. We have 62 utility-scale wind and solar
projects and 125 solar rooftops on fulfillment and sort centers around the globe. These projects have the
capacity to generate over 6.9 gigawatts and deliver more than 20 million megawatt-hours of energy annually.
Transportation is a major component of Amazon’s business operations and the toughest part of our plan
to meet net-zero carbon by 2040. To help rapidly accelerate the market for electric vehicle technology, and to
help all companies transition to greener technologies, we invested more than $1 billion in Rivian – and
ordered 100,000 electric delivery vans from the company. We’ve also partnered with Mahindra in India and
Mercedes-Benz in Europe. These custom electric delivery vehicles from Rivian are already operational, and
they first hit the road in Los Angeles this past February. Ten thousand new vehicles will be on the road as
early as next year, and all 100,000 vehicles will be on the road by 2030 – saving millions of metric tons of
carbon. A big reason we want companies to join The Climate Pledge is to signal to the marketplace that
businesses should start inventing and developing new technologies that signatories need to make good on
the Pledge. Our purchase of 100,000 Rivian electric vans is a perfect example.
To further accelerate investment in new technologies needed to build a zero-carbon economy, we introduced
the Climate Pledge Fund last June. The investment program started with $2 billion to invest in visionary
companies that aim to facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy. Amazon has already announced
investments in CarbonCure Technologies, Pachama, Redwood Materials, Rivian, Turntide Technologies,
ZeroAvia, and Infinium – and these are just some of the innovative companies we hope will build the zerocarbon economy of the future.
I have also personally allocated $10 billion to provide grants to help catalyze the systemic change we will
need in the coming decade. We’ll be supporting leading scientists, activists, NGOs, environmental justice
organizations, and others working to fight climate change and protect the natural world. Late last year, I made
my first round of grants to 16 organizations working on innovative and needle-moving solutions. It’s going
to take collective action from big companies, small companies, nation states, global organizations, and
individuals, and I’m excited to be part of this journey and optimistic that humanity can come together to
solve this challenge.
Differentiation is Survival and the Universe Wants You to be Typical
This is my last annual shareholder letter as the CEO of Amazon, and I have one last thing of utmost
importance I feel compelled to teach. I hope all Amazonians take it to heart.
Here is a passage from Richard Dawkins’ (extraordinary) book The Blind Watchmaker. It’s about a basic
fact of biology.
“Staving off death is a thing that you have to work at. Left to itself – and that is what it is when it
dies – the body tends to revert to a state of equilibrium with its environment. If you measure some
quantity such as the temperature, the acidity, the water content or the electrical potential in a living
body, you will typically find that it is markedly different from the corresponding measure in the
surroundings. Our bodies, for instance, are usually hotter than our surroundings, and in cold climates
they have to work hard to maintain the differential. When we die the work stops, the temperature
differential starts to disappear, and we end up the same temperature as our surroundings. Not all
animals work so hard to avoid coming into equilibrium with their surrounding temperature, but all
animals do some comparable work. For instance, in a dry country, animals and plants work to
maintain the fluid content of their cells, work against a natural tendency for water to flow from them
into the dry outside world. If they fail they die. More generally, if living things didn’t work actively to
prevent it, they would eventually merge into their surroundings, and cease to exist as autonomous
beings. That is what happens when they die.”
While the passage is not intended as a metaphor, it’s nevertheless a fantastic one, and very relevant to
Amazon. I would argue that it’s relevant to all companies and all institutions and to each of our individual
lives too. In what ways does the world pull at you in an attempt to make you normal? How much work does it
take to maintain your distinctiveness? To keep alive the thing or things that make you special?
I know a happily married couple who have a running joke in their relationship. Not infrequently, the
husband looks at the wife with faux distress and says to her, “Can’t you just be normal?” They both smile
and laugh, and of course the deep truth is that her distinctiveness is something he loves about her. But, at the
same time, it’s also true that things would often be easier – take less energy – if we were a little more
normal.
This phenomenon happens at all scale levels. Democracies are not normal. Tyranny is the historical norm. If
we stopped doing all of the continuous hard work that is needed to maintain our distinctiveness in that
regard, we would quickly come into equilibrium with tyranny.
We all know that distinctiveness – originality – is valuable. We are all taught to “be yourself.” What I’m
really asking you to do is to embrace and be realistic about how much energy it takes to maintain that
distinctiveness. The world wants you to be typical – in a thousand ways, it pulls at you. Don’t let it happen.
You have to pay a price for your distinctiveness, and it’s worth it. The fairy tale version of “be yourself ” is that
all the pain stops as soon as you allow your distinctiveness to shine. That version is misleading. Being
yourself is worth it, but don’t expect it to be easy or free. You’ll have to put energy into it continuously.
The world will always try to make Amazon more typical – to bring us into equilibrium with our environment.
It will take continuous effort, but we can and must be better than that.
***
As always, I attach our 1997 shareholder letter. It concluded with this: “We at Amazon.com are grateful to
our customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our shareholders for their
support and encouragement.” That hasn’t changed a bit. I want to especially thank Andy Jassy for agreeing
to take on the CEO role. It’s a hard job with a lot of responsibility. Andy is brilliant and has the highest
of high standards. I guarantee you that Andy won’t let the universe make us typical. He will muster the
energy needed to keep alive in us what makes us special. That won’t be easy, but it is critical. I also predict it
will be satisfying and oftentimes fun. Thank you, Andy.
To all of you: be kind, be original, create more than you consume, and never, never, never let the universe
smooth you into your surroundings. It remains Day 1


To our shareholders, customers, and employees:
The last 3½ years have been exciting. We’ve served a cumulative 6.2 million
customers, exited 1998 with a $1 billion revenue run rate, launched music, video, and gift
stores in the U.S., opened shop in the U.K. and Germany, and, just recently, launched
Amazon.com Auctions.
We predict the next 3½ years will be even more exciting. We are working to
build a place where tens of millions of customers can come to find and discover anything
they might want to buy online. It is truly Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute our
business plan well, it remains Day 1 for Amazon.com. Given what’s happened, it may be
difficult to conceive, but we think the opportunities and risks ahead of us are even greater
than those behind us. We will have to make many conscious and deliberate choices,
some of which will be bold and unconventional. Hopefully, some will turn out to be
winners. Certainly, some will turn out to be mistakes.
A Recap of 1998
Heads-down focus on customers helped us make substantial progress in 1998:
• Sales grew from $148 million in 1997 to $610 million – a 313% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 1.5 million at the end of 1997 to 6.2
million at the end of 1998 – an increase of over 300%.
• Despite this strong new customer growth, the percentage of orders placed on the
Amazon.com Web site by repeat customers grew from over 58% in the fourth
quarter of 1997 to over 64% in the same period in 1998.
• Our first major product expansion, the Amazon.com music store, became the
leading online music retailer in its first full quarter.
• Following their October launch under the Amazon brand and with Amazon.com
technology, the combined fourth-quarter sales in the U.K. and German stores
nearly quadrupled over the third quarter, establishing Amazon.co.uk and
Amazon.de as the leading online booksellers in their markets.
• The addition of music was followed by the addition of video and gifts in
November, and we became the leading online video retailer in only 6 weeks.
• 25% of our fourth-quarter 1998 sales was derived from Amazon.co.uk,
Amazon.de, and music, video, and gift sales on Amazon.com, all very new
businesses.
• We significantly improved the customer experience, with innovations like 1-
ClickSM shopping, Gift Click, store-wide sales rank, and instant recommendations.
1998’s revenue and customer growth and achievement of continued growth in 1999
were and are dependent on expansion of our infrastructure. Some highlights:
• In 1998 our employee base grew from approximately 600 to over 2,100, and we
significantly strengthened our management team.
• We opened distribution and customer service centers in the U.K. and Germany,
and in early 1999, announced the lease of a highly-mechanized distribution center
of approximately 323,000 square feet in Fernley, Nevada. This latest addition
will more than double our total distribution capacity and allows us to even further
improve time-to-mailbox for customers.
• Inventories rose from $9 million at the beginning of the year to $30 million by
year end, enabling us to improve product availability for our customers and
improve product costs through direct purchasing from manufacturers.
• Our cash and investment balances, following our May 1998 high yield debt
offering and early 1999 convertible debt offering, now stand at well over $1.5
billion (on a pro forma basis), affording us substantial financial strength and
strategic flexibility.
We’re fortunate to benefit from a business model that is cash-favored and capital
efficient. As we do not need to build physical stores or stock those stores with inventory,
our centralized distribution model has allowed us to build our business to a billion-dollar
sales rate with just $30 million in inventory and $30 million in net plant and equipment.
In 1998, we generated $31 million in operating cash flow which more than offset net
fixed asset additions of $28 million.
Our Customers
We intend to build the world’s most customer-centric company. We hold as
axiomatic that customers are perceptive and smart, and that brand image follows reality
and not the other way around. Our customers tell us that they choose Amazon.com and
tell their friends about us because of the selection, ease-of-use, low prices, and service
that we deliver.
But there is no rest for the weary. I constantly remind our employees to be afraid,
to wake up every morning terrified. Not of our competition, but of our customers. Our
customers have made our business what it is, they are the ones with whom we have a
relationship, and they are the ones to whom we owe a great obligation. And we consider
them to be loyal to us – right up until the second that someone else offers them a better
service.
We must be committed to constant improvement, experimentation, and innovation
in every initiative. We love to be pioneers, it’s in the DNA of the company, and it’s a
good thing, too, because we’ll need that pioneering spirit to succeed. We’re proud of the
differentiation we’ve built through constant innovation and relentless focus on customer
experience, and we believe our initiatives in 1998 reflect it: our music, video, U.K. and
German stores, like our U.S. bookstore, are best of breed.
Work Hard, Have Fun, Make History
It would be impossible to produce results in an environment as dynamic as the
Internet without extraordinary people. Working to create a little bit of history isn’t
supposed to be easy, and, well, we’re finding that things are as they’re supposed to be!
We now have a team of 2,100 smart, hard-working, passionate folks who put customers
first. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring has been, and will continue to be, the
single most important element of Amazon.com’s success.
During our hiring meetings, we ask people to consider three questions before making
a decision:
• Will you admire this person? If you think about the people you’ve admired in
your life, they are probably people you’ve been able to learn from or take an
example from. For myself, I’ve always tried hard to work only with people I
admire, and I encourage folks here to be just as demanding. Life is definitely too
short to do otherwise.
• Will this person raise the average level of effectiveness of the group they’re
entering? We want to fight entropy. The bar has to continuously go up. I ask
people to visualize the company 5 years from now. At that point, each of us
should look around and say, “The standards are so high now -- boy, I’m glad I got
in when I did!”
• Along what dimension might this person be a superstar? Many people have
unique skills, interests, and perspectives that enrich the work environment for all
of us. It’s often something that’s not even related to their jobs. One person here
is a National Spelling Bee champion (1978, I believe). I suspect it doesn’t help
her in her everyday work, but it does make working here more fun if you can
occasionally snag her in the hall with a quick challenge: “onomatopoeia!”
Goals for 1999
As we look forward, we believe that the overall e-commerce opportunity is enormous,
and 1999 will be an important year. Although Amazon.com has established a strong
leadership position, it is certain that competition will even further accelerate. We plan to
invest aggressively to build the foundation for a multi-billion-dollar revenue company
serving tens of millions of customers with operational excellence and high efficiency.
Although this level of forward investment is costly and carries many inherent risks, we
believe it will provide the best end-to-end experience for customers, and actually offer
the least risky long-term value creation approach for investors.
The elements of our 1999 plan may not surprise you:
Distribution capacity − We intend to build out a significant distribution infrastructure
to ensure that we can support all the sales our customers demand, with speedy access to a
deep product inventory.
Systems capacity − We’ll be expanding our systems capacity to support similar
growth levels. The systems group has a significant task: expand to meet near term
growth, restructure systems for multi-billion dollar scale and tens of millions of
customers, build out features and systems for new initiatives and new innovations, and
increase operational excellence and efficiency. All while keeping a billion dollar, 8
million customer store up and available on a 24x7 basis.
Brand promise − Amazon.com is still a small and young company relative to the
major offline retailers, and we must ensure that we build wide, strong customer
relationships during this critical period.
Expanded product and service offerings − In 1999, we will continue to enhance the
scope of our current product and service offerings, as well as add new initiatives.
Amazon.com Auctions is our most recent addition. If any of you have not tried this new
service, I encourage you to run – not walk – to www.amazon.com and click on the
Auctions tab. As an Amazon.com customer, you are pre-registered to both bid and sell.
As a seller, you have access to Amazon.com’s 8 million experienced online shoppers.
Bench strength and processes − We’ve complicated our business dramatically with
new products, services, geographies, acquisitions and additions to our business model.
We intend to invest in teams, processes, communication and people development
practices. Scaling in this way is among the most challenging and difficult elements of
our plan.
Amazon.com has made a number of strides forward in the past year, but there is still
an enormous amount to learn and to do. We remain optimistic, but we also know we must
remain vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. We face many challenges and hurdles.
Among them, aggressive, capable and well-funded competition; the growth challenges
and execution risk associated with our own expansion; and the need for large continuing
investments to meet an expanding market opportunity.
The most important thing I could say in this letter was said in last years’ letter, which
detailed our long-term investment approach. Because we have so many new shareholders
(this year we’re printing more than 200,000 of these letters – last year we printed about
13,000), we’ve appended last year’s letter immediately after this year’s. I invite you to
please read the section entitled It’s All About the Long Term. You might want to read it
twice to make sure we’re the kind of company you want to be invested in. As it says
there, we don’t claim it’s the right philosophy, we just claim it’s ours!
All the best and sincere thanks once again to our customers and shareholders and all
the folks here who are working passionately every day to build an important and lasting
company.
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
 (Reprinted from the 1997 Annual Report)
To our shareholders:
Amazon.com passed many milestones in 1997: by year-end, we had served more
than 1.5 million customers, yielding 838% revenue growth to $147.8 million, and
extended our market leadership despite aggressive competitive entry.
But this is Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute well, for Amazon.com. Today,
online commerce saves customers money and precious time. Tomorrow, through
personalization, online commerce will accelerate the very process of discovery.
Amazon.com uses the Internet to create real value for its customers and, by doing so,
hopes to create an enduring franchise, even in established and large markets.
We have a window of opportunity as larger players marshal the resources to pursue
the online opportunity and as customers, new to purchasing online, are receptive to
forming new relationships. The competitive landscape has continued to evolve at a fast
pace. Many large players have moved online with credible offerings and have devoted
substantial energy and resources to building awareness, traffic, and sales. Our goal is to
move quickly to solidify and extend our current position while we begin to pursue the
online commerce opportunities in other areas. We see substantial opportunity in the large
markets we are targeting. This strategy is not without risk: it requires serious investment
and crisp execution against established franchise leaders.
It's All About the Long Term
We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the shareholder value
we create over the long term. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend
and solidify our current market leadership position. The stronger our market leadership,
the more powerful our economic model. Market leadership can translate directly to
higher revenue, higher profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger
returns on invested capital.
Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in
terms of the metrics most indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue
growth, the degree to which our customers continue to purchase from us on a repeat
basis, and the strength of our brand. We have invested and will continue to invest
aggressively to expand and leverage our customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we
move to establish an enduring franchise.
Because of our emphasis on the long term, we may make decisions and weigh
tradeoffs differently than some companies. Accordingly, we want to share with you our
fundamental management and decision-making approach so that you, our shareholders,
may confirm that it is consistent with your investment philosophy:
• We will continue to focus relentlessly on our customers.
• We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market
leadership considerations rather than short-term profitability considerations or
short-term Wall Street reactions.
• We will continue to measure our programs and the effectiveness of our
investments analytically, to jettison those that do not provide acceptable returns,
and to step up our investment in those that work best. We will continue to learn
from both our successes and our failures.
• We will make bold rather than timid investment decisions where we see a
sufficient probability of gaining market leadership advantages. Some of these
investments will pay off, others will not, and we will have learned another
valuable lesson in either case.
• When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP
accounting and maximizing the present value of future cash flows, we'll take the
cash flows.
• We will share our strategic thought processes with you when we make bold
choices (to the extent competitive pressures allow), so that you may evaluate for
yourselves whether we are making rational long-term leadership investments.
• We will work hard to spend wisely and maintain our lean culture. We understand
the importance of continually reinforcing a cost-conscious culture, particularly in
a business incurring net losses.
• We will balance our focus on growth with emphasis on long-term profitability and
capital management. At this stage, we choose to prioritize growth because we
believe that scale is central to achieving the potential of our business model.
• We will continue to focus on hiring and retaining versatile and talented
employees, and continue to weight their compensation to stock options rather than
cash. We know our success will be largely affected by our ability to attract and
retain a motivated employee base, each of whom must think like, and therefore
must actually be, an owner.
We aren't so bold as to claim that the above is the "right" investment philosophy, but
it's ours, and we would be remiss if we weren't clear in the approach we have taken and
will continue to take.
With this foundation, we would like to turn to a review of our business focus, our
progress in 1997, and our outlook for the future.
Obsess Over Customers
From the beginning, our focus has been on offering our customers compelling value.
We realized that the Web was, and still is, the World Wide Wait. Therefore, we set out to
offer customers something they simply could not get any other way, and began serving
them with books. We brought them much more selection than was possible in a physical
store (our store would now occupy 6 football fields), and presented it in a useful, easy-tosearch, and easy-to-browse format in a store open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. We
maintained a dogged focus on improving the shopping experience, and in 1997
substantially enhanced our store. We now offer customers gift certificates, 1-Click(SM)
shopping, and vastly more reviews, content, browsing options, and recommendation
features. We dramatically lowered prices, further increasing customer value. Word of
mouth remains the most powerful customer acquisition tool we have, and we are grateful
for the trust our customers have placed in us. Repeat purchases and word of mouth have
combined to make Amazon.com the market leader in online bookselling.
By many measures, Amazon.com came a long way in 1997:
• Sales grew from $15.7 million in 1996 to $147.8 million – an 838% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 180,000 to 1,510,000 – a 738%
increase.
• The percentage of orders from repeat customers grew from over 46% in the fourth
quarter of 1996 to over 58% in the same period in 1997.
• In terms of audience reach, per Media Metrix, our Web site went from a rank of
90th to within the top 20.
• We established long-term relationships with many important strategic partners,
including America Online, Yahoo!, Excite, Netscape, GeoCities, AltaVista,
@Home, and Prodigy.
Infrastructure
During 1997, we worked hard to expand our business infrastructure to support these
greatly increased traffic, sales, and service levels:
• Amazon.com's employee base grew from 158 to 614, and we significantly
strengthened our management team.
• Distribution center capacity grew from 50,000 to 285,000 square feet, including a
70% expansion of our Seattle facilities and the launch of our second distribution
center in Delaware in November.
• Inventories rose to over 200,000 titles at year-end, enabling us to improve
availability for our customers.
• Our cash and investment balances at year-end were $125 million, thanks to our
initial public offering in May 1997 and our $75 million loan, affording us
substantial strategic flexibility.
Our Employees
The past year's success is the product of a talented, smart, hard-working group, and I
take great pride in being a part of this team. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring
has been, and will continue to be, the single most important element of Amazon.com's
success.
It's not easy to work here (when I interview people I tell them, “You can work long,
hard, or smart, but at Amazon.com you can't choose two out of three"), but we are
working to build something important, something that matters to our customers,
something that we can all tell our grandchildren about. Such things aren't meant to be
easy. We are incredibly fortunate to have this group of dedicated employees whose
sacrifices and passion build Amazon.com.
Goals for 1998
We are still in the early stages of learning how to bring new value to our customers
through Internet commerce and merchandising. Our goal remains to continue to solidify
and extend our brand and customer base. This requires sustained investment in systems
and infrastructure to support outstanding customer convenience, selection, and service
while we grow. We are planning to add music to our product offering, and over time we
believe that other products may be prudent investments. We also believe there are
significant opportunities to better serve our customers overseas, such as reducing delivery
times and better tailoring the customer experience. To be certain, a big part of the
challenge for us will lie not in finding new ways to expand our business, but in
prioritizing our investments.
We now know vastly more about online commerce than when Amazon.com was
founded, but we still have so much to learn. Though we are optimistic, we must remain
vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. The challenges and hurdles we will face to
make our long-term vision for Amazon.com a reality are several: aggressive, capable,
well-funded competition; considerable growth challenges and execution risk; the risks of
product and geographic expansion; and the need for large continuing investments to
meet an expanding market opportunity. However, as we've long said, online
bookselling, and online commerce in general, should prove to be a very large market,
and it's likely that a number of companies will see significant benefit. We feel good
about what we've done, and even more excited about what we want to do.
1997 was indeed an incredible year. We at Amazon.com are grateful to our
customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our
shareholders for their support and encouragement.


To our shareholders:
The first 4½ years of our journey have yielded some amazing results: we’ve now served
over 17 million customers in over 150 countries and built the leading global e-commerce
brand and platform.
In the coming years we expect to benefit from the continued adoption of online
commerce around the world as millions of new consumers connect to the Internet for the
first time. As the online shopping experience continues to improve, consumer trust and
confidence will increase, driving further adoption. And, if we at Amazon.com do our job
right, we can be uniquely positioned to serve these new customers best and benefit as a
result.
A Recap of 1999
During 1999, our relentless focus on customers worked:
• Sales grew from $610 million in 1998 to $1.64 billion – a 169 percent increase.
• We added 10.7 million new customers, increasing cumulative customer accounts
from 6.2 million to 16.9 million.
• The percentage of orders placed by repeat customers grew from over 64 percent
in the fourth quarter of 1998 to greater than 73 percent in the same period in 1999.
• Customers around the world are now choosing Amazon.com for a wide array of
products. Only two years ago, Amazon.com's U.S. Books business represented
100 percent of our sales. Today, despite strong growth in U.S. Books, other areas
account for more than half our sales. Major 1999 initiatives included Auctions,
zShops, Toys, Consumer Electronics, Home Improvement, Software, Video
Games, Payments and our wireless initiative, Amazon Anywhere.
• We've continued to be recognized as best-of-breed not only in our more
established areas such as books, but in our newer stores as well. Just to focus on
one area, Amazon Toys has received multiple awards, including being rated the
best online toy store in an MSNBC survey, a ranking as the No. 1 on-line toy
store by Forrester Research, and the top e-Rating from Consumer Reports in the
toys category, in each case beating out a number of longer-established players.
• Sales outside of the US accounted for 22 percent of our business, totaling $358
million. In the U.K. and Germany, we added Music, Auctions and zShops. In
fact, Amazon.co.uk, Amazon.de, and Amazon.com are now the #1, #2, and #3
most popular online retail domains in Europe.
• We grew worldwide distribution capacity from roughly 300,000 square feet to
over 5 million square feet in less than 12 months.
• In part because of this infrastructure, we were able to grow revenues 90 percent in
just three months, while shipping well over 99 percent of our holiday orders in
time for the holidays. As far as we can determine, no other company has ever
grown 90 percent in three months on a sales base of over $1 billion.
I’m incredibly proud of everyone at Amazon.com for their tireless efforts to deliver what
has become the standard-setting, Amazon.com-class customer experience while
simultaneously handling such extraordinary growth rates. If any of you shareholders
would like to thank this incredible worldwide team of Amazonians, please feel free to
send an email to jeff@amazon.com. With help from my astounding office staff, I’ll
compile them and send them to the company. I know it would be appreciated. (As a side
benefit I’ll get to see if anyone reads these letters!)
In 1999, we continued to benefit from a business model that is inherently capital efficient.
We don’t need to build physical stores or stock those stores with inventory, and our
centralized distribution model has allowed us to build a business with over $2 billion in
annualized sales but requiring just $220 million in inventory and $318 million in fixed
assets. Over the last five years, we’ve cumulatively used just $62 million in operating
cash.
What Do You Own?
At a recent event at the Stanford University campus, a young woman came to the
microphone and asked me a great question: “I have 100 shares of Amazon.com. What do
I own?”
I was surprised I hadn’t heard it before, at least not so simply put. What do you own?
You own a piece of the leading e-commerce platform.
The Amazon.com platform is comprised of brand, customers, technology, distribution
capability, deep e-commerce expertise, and a great team with a passion for innovation
and a passion for serving customers well. We begin the year 2000 with 17 million
customers, a world-wide reputation for customer focus, the best e-commerce software
systems, and purpose-built distribution and customer service infrastructure. We believe
we have reached a “tipping point,” where this platform allows us to launch new ecommerce businesses faster, with a higher quality of customer experience, a lower
incremental cost, a higher chance of success, and a faster path to scale and profitability
than any other company.
Our vision is to use this platform to build Earth’s most customer-centric company, a
place where customers can come to find and discover anything and everything they might
want to buy online. We won’t do so alone, but together with what will be thousands of
partners of all sizes. We’ll listen to customers, invent on their behalf, and personalize the
store for each of them, all while working hard to continue to earn their trust. As is
probably clear, this platform affords an unusually large scale opportunity, one that should
prove very valuable for both customers and shareholders if we can make the most of it.
Despite the many risks and complexities, we are deeply committed to doing so.
Goals for 2000
In the year 2000, Amazon.com has six major goals: growth in both the number of our
customers and the strength of the relationship we have with each of them; continued rapid
expansion of the products and services we offer; driving operational excellence in all
areas of the company; international expansion; expanding our partnership programs; and
last, importantly, driving toward profitability in each and every business we are in. I’ll
spend a moment on each goal.
Growing and strengthening customer relationships  We will continue to invest
heavily in introductions to new customers. Though it’s sometimes hard to imagine with
all that has happened in the last five years, this remains Day 1 for e-commerce, and these
are the early days of category formation where many customers are forming relationships
for the first time. We must work hard to grow the number of customers who shop with
us, the number of products they purchase, the frequency with which they shop, and the
level of satisfaction they have when they do so.
Product and service expansion  We are working to build a place where customers can
find and discover anything they want to buy, anytime, anywhere. Each new product and
service we offer makes us more relevant to a wider group of customers and can increase
the frequency with which they visit our store. So, as we expand our offering, we create a
virtuous cycle for the whole business. The more frequently customers visit our store, the
less time, energy, and marketing investment is required to get them to come back again.
In sight, in mind.
Further, as we expand, each new store has a dedicated team working to make it best-ofbreed in its category; thus each new store is also a new opportunity to demonstrate to
customers our focus on them. Finally, each new product or service further leverages our
investments in distribution, customer service, technology, and brand, and can yield
increased leverage on our bottom line.
Operational excellence  To us, operational excellence implies two things: delivering
continuous improvement in customer experience and driving productivity, margin,
efficiency, and asset velocity across all our businesses.
Often, the best way to drive one of these is to deliver the other. For instance, more
efficient distribution yields faster delivery times, which in turn lowers contacts per order
and customer service costs. These, in turn, improve customer experience and build
brand, which in turn decreases customer acquisition and retention costs.
Our whole company is highly focused on driving operational excellence in each area of
our business in 2000. Being world class in both customer experience and operations will
allow us to grow faster and deliver even higher service levels.
International expansion  We think that consumers outside the U.S. are even more
under-served by retail than those within it, and, with our platform in place, Amazon.com
is well positioned to be a leading global retailer. We already have significant brand, sales
and customer presence around the world, as we’ve been shipping into over 150 countries
for almost five years. I’m pleased to report that our stores in the UK and Germany are off
to a strong start − they are already in the top 10 Web properties and the # 1 e-commerce
site in each of their respective countries. Our customers and shareholders around the
world can look forward to further geographic expansion from this base during the coming
year.
Expanding our partnership program  Through our platform, we are able to bring
tremendous value to our partners, such as drugstore.com. In fact, our experience so far
suggests that Amazon.com may easily be the most efficient, effective means for our
partners to build their businesses. In many areas, partnering is the best way for us to
rapidly expand our store in a customer-focused, cost-effective manner. One point worth
emphasizing: the quality of customer experience a partner delivers is the single most
important criteria in our selection process − we simply won’t build a partnership with any
company that does not share our passion for serving customers.
We love these kinds of partnerships because they please customers, please our partners,
and are financially attractive, pleasing our shareholders − you and us.
Drive toward profitability in each business we are in  Each of the previous goals
I’ve outlined contribute to our long-standing objective of building the best, most
profitable, highest return on capital, long-term franchise. So in a way, driving
profitability is the foundation underlying all of these goals. In the coming year, we
expect to deliver substantial margin improvement and cost leverage as we drive
continuous improvement in our partnerships with suppliers, in our own productivity and
efficiency, in our management of fixed and working capital, and our expertise in
managing product mix and price.
Each successive product and service we launch this year should build on our platform, so
our investment curve can be less steep and the time to profitability for each business
should, in general, continue to shorten.
It’s All About the Long Term
In our 1997 letter to shareholders (our first), we detailed our long-term investment
approach. Because we continue to add many new shareholders, we’ve appended that
letter immediately after this year’s. I invite you to please read the section entitled It’s All
About the Long Term, as it is the best way I know to help make sure we’re the kind of
company you want to be invested in. As we wrote there, we don’t claim it’s the right
philosophy, we just claim it’s ours!
In closing, consider this most important point: the current online shopping experience is
the worst it will ever be. It’s good enough today to attract 17 million customers, but it
will get so much better. Increased bandwidth will result in faster page views and richer
content. Further improvements will lead to “always-on access” (which I expect will be a
strong boost to online shopping at home, as opposed to the office) and we’ll see
significant growth in non-PC devices and wireless access. Moreover, it’s great to be
participating in what is a multi-trillion dollar global market, in which we are so very, very
tiny. We are doubly-blessed. We have a market-size unconstrained opportunity in an
area where the underlying foundational technology we employ improves every day. That
is not normal.
As always, we at Amazon.com remain grateful to our customers for their business and
trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our shareholders for their support and
encouragement. Many, many thanks.
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
 (Reprinted from the 1997 Annual Report)
To our shareholders:
Amazon.com passed many milestones in 1997: by year-end, we had served more
than 1.5 million customers, yielding 838% revenue growth to $147.8 million, and
extended our market leadership despite aggressive competitive entry.
But this is Day 1 for the Internet and, if we execute well, for Amazon.com. Today,
online commerce saves customers money and precious time. Tomorrow, through
personalization, online commerce will accelerate the very process of discovery.
Amazon.com uses the Internet to create real value for its customers and, by doing so,
hopes to create an enduring franchise, even in established and large markets.
We have a window of opportunity as larger players marshal the resources to pursue
the online opportunity and as customers, new to purchasing online, are receptive to
forming new relationships. The competitive landscape has continued to evolve at a fast
pace. Many large players have moved online with credible offerings and have devoted
substantial energy and resources to building awareness, traffic, and sales. Our goal is to
move quickly to solidify and extend our current position while we begin to pursue the
online commerce opportunities in other areas. We see substantial opportunity in the large
markets we are targeting. This strategy is not without risk: it requires serious investment
and crisp execution against established franchise leaders.
It's All About the Long Term
We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the shareholder value
we create over the long term. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend
and solidify our current market leadership position. The stronger our market leadership,
the more powerful our economic model. Market leadership can translate directly to
higher revenue, higher profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger
returns on invested capital.
Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in
terms of the metrics most indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue
growth, the degree to which our customers continue to purchase from us on a repeat
basis, and the strength of our brand. We have invested and will continue to invest
aggressively to expand and leverage our customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we
move to establish an enduring franchise.
Because of our emphasis on the long term, we may make decisions and weigh
tradeoffs differently than some companies. Accordingly, we want to share with you our
fundamental management and decision-making approach so that you, our shareholders,
may confirm that it is consistent with your investment philosophy:
• We will continue to focus relentlessly on our customers.
• We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market
leadership considerations rather than short-term profitability considerations or
short-term Wall Street reactions.
• We will continue to measure our programs and the effectiveness of our
investments analytically, to jettison those that do not provide acceptable returns,
and to step up our investment in those that work best. We will continue to learn
from both our successes and our failures.
• We will make bold rather than timid investment decisions where we see a
sufficient probability of gaining market leadership advantages. Some of these
investments will pay off, others will not, and we will have learned another
valuable lesson in either case.
• When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP
accounting and maximizing the present value of future cash flows, we'll take the
cash flows.
• We will share our strategic thought processes with you when we make bold
choices (to the extent competitive pressures allow), so that you may evaluate for
yourselves whether we are making rational long-term leadership investments.
• We will work hard to spend wisely and maintain our lean culture. We understand
the importance of continually reinforcing a cost-conscious culture, particularly in
a business incurring net losses.
• We will balance our focus on growth with emphasis on long-term profitability and
capital management. At this stage, we choose to prioritize growth because we
believe that scale is central to achieving the potential of our business model.
• We will continue to focus on hiring and retaining versatile and talented
employees, and continue to weight their compensation to stock options rather than
cash. We know our success will be largely affected by our ability to attract and
retain a motivated employee base, each of whom must think like, and therefore
must actually be, an owner.
We aren't so bold as to claim that the above is the "right" investment philosophy, but
it's ours, and we would be remiss if we weren't clear in the approach we have taken and
will continue to take.
With this foundation, we would like to turn to a review of our business focus, our
progress in 1997, and our outlook for the future.
Obsess Over Customers
From the beginning, our focus has been on offering our customers compelling value.
We realized that the Web was, and still is, the World Wide Wait. Therefore, we set out to
offer customers something they simply could not get any other way, and began serving
them with books. We brought them much more selection than was possible in a physical
store (our store would now occupy 6 football fields), and presented it in a useful, easy-tosearch, and easy-to-browse format in a store open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. We
maintained a dogged focus on improving the shopping experience, and in 1997
substantially enhanced our store. We now offer customers gift certificates, 1-Click(SM)
shopping, and vastly more reviews, content, browsing options, and recommendation
features. We dramatically lowered prices, further increasing customer value. Word of
mouth remains the most powerful customer acquisition tool we have, and we are grateful
for the trust our customers have placed in us. Repeat purchases and word of mouth have
combined to make Amazon.com the market leader in online bookselling.
By many measures, Amazon.com came a long way in 1997:
• Sales grew from $15.7 million in 1996 to $147.8 million – an 838% increase.
• Cumulative customer accounts grew from 180,000 to 1,510,000 – a 738%
increase.
• The percentage of orders from repeat customers grew from over 46% in the fourth
quarter of 1996 to over 58% in the same period in 1997.
• In terms of audience reach, per Media Metrix, our Web site went from a rank of
90th to within the top 20.
• We established long-term relationships with many important strategic partners,
including America Online, Yahoo!, Excite, Netscape, GeoCities, AltaVista,
@Home, and Prodigy.
Infrastructure
During 1997, we worked hard to expand our business infrastructure to support these
greatly increased traffic, sales, and service levels:
• Amazon.com's employee base grew from 158 to 614, and we significantly
strengthened our management team.
• Distribution center capacity grew from 50,000 to 285,000 square feet, including a
70% expansion of our Seattle facilities and the launch of our second distribution
center in Delaware in November.
• Inventories rose to over 200,000 titles at year-end, enabling us to improve
availability for our customers.
• Our cash and investment balances at year-end were $125 million, thanks to our
initial public offering in May 1997 and our $75 million loan, affording us
substantial strategic flexibility.
Our Employees
The past year's success is the product of a talented, smart, hard-working group, and I
take great pride in being a part of this team. Setting the bar high in our approach to hiring
has been, and will continue to be, the single most important element of Amazon.com's
success.
It's not easy to work here (when I interview people I tell them, “You can work long,
hard, or smart, but at Amazon.com you can't choose two out of three"), but we are
working to build something important, something that matters to our customers,
something that we can all tell our grandchildren about. Such things aren't meant to be
easy. We are incredibly fortunate to have this group of dedicated employees whose
sacrifices and passion build Amazon.com.
Goals for 1998
We are still in the early stages of learning how to bring new value to our customers
through Internet commerce and merchandising. Our goal remains to continue to solidify
and extend our brand and customer base. This requires sustained investment in systems
and infrastructure to support outstanding customer convenience, selection, and service
while we grow. We are planning to add music to our product offering, and over time we
believe that other products may be prudent investments. We also believe there are
significant opportunities to better serve our customers overseas, such as reducing delivery
times and better tailoring the customer experience. To be certain, a big part of the
challenge for us will lie not in finding new ways to expand our business, but in
prioritizing our investments.
We now know vastly more about online commerce than when Amazon.com was
founded, but we still have so much to learn. Though we are optimistic, we must remain
vigilant and maintain a sense of urgency. The challenges and hurdles we will face to
make our long-term vision for Amazon.com a reality are several: aggressive, capable,
well-funded competition; considerable growth challenges and execution risk; the risks of
product and geographic expansion; and the need for large continuing investments to
meet an expanding market opportunity. However, as we've long said, online
bookselling, and online commerce in general, should prove to be a very large market,
and it's likely that a number of companies will see significant benefit. We feel good
about what we've done, and even more excited about what we want to do.
1997 was indeed an incredible year. We at Amazon.com are grateful to our
customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our
shareholders for their support and encouragement